THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part III.—Fundamental Rights)
9
(5) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any law which
provides that the incumbent of an office in connection with the affairs of any
religious or denominational institution or any member of the governing body
thereof shall be a person professing a particular religion or belonging to a
particular denomination.
1[(6) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any
provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any
economically weaker sections of citizens other than the classes mentioned in
clause (4), in addition to the existing reservation and subject to a maximum of
ten per cent. of the posts in each category.]
17. Abolition of Untouchability.—“Untouchability” is abolished and its
practice in any form is forbidden. The enforcement of any disability arising out
of “Untouchability” shall be an offence punishable in accordance with law.
18. Abolition of titles.—(1) No title, not being a military or academic
distinction, shall be conferred by the State.
(2) No citizen of India shall accept any title from any foreign State.
(3) No person who is not a citizen of India shall, while he holds any
office of profit or trust under the State, accept without the consent of the
President any title from any foreign State.
(4) No person holding any office of profit or trust under the State shall,
without the consent of the President, accept any present, emolument, or office
of any kind from or under any foreign State.
Right to Freedom
19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.—
(1) All citizens shall have the right—
(a) to freedom of speech and expression;
(b) to assemble peaceably and without arms;
(c) to form associations or unions 2[or co-operative societies];
(d) to move freely throughout the territory of India;
1. Ins. by the Constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act, 2019, s. 3
(w.e.f. 14-1-2019).
2. Ins. by the Constitution (Ninety-seventh Amendment) Act, 2011, s. 2 (w.e.f. 8-2-2012).