THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part III.—Fundamental Rights)
14
Right against Exploitation
23. Prohibition of traffic in human beings and forced labour.—(1)
Traffic in human beings and begar and other similar forms of forced labour are
prohibited and any contravention of this provision shall be an offence
punishable in accordance with law.
(2) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from imposing
compulsory service for public purposes, and in imposing such service the State
shall not make any discrimination on grounds only of religion, race, caste or
class or any of them.
24. Prohibition of employment of children in factories, etc.—No child
below the age of fourteen years shall be employed to work in any factory or
mine or engaged in any other hazardous employment.
Right to Freedom of Religion
25. Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and
propagation of religion.—(1) Subject to public order, morality and health and
to the other provisions of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom
of conscience and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion.
(2) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any existing law or
prevent the State from making any law—
(a) regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or
other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice;
(b) providing for social welfare and reform or the throwing open
of Hindu religious institutions of a public character to all classes and
sections of Hindus.
Explanation I.—The wearing and carrying of kirpans shall be deemed to
be included in the profession of the Sikh religion.
Explanation II.—In sub-clause (b) of clause (2), the reference to Hindus
shall be construed as including a reference to persons professing the Sikh, Jaina
or Buddhist religion, and the reference to Hindu religious institutions shall be
construed accordingly.
26. Freedom to manage religious affairs.—Subject to public order,
morality and health, every religious denomination or any section thereof shall
have the right—
(a) to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable
purposes;