THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVIII.—EMERGENCY PROVISIONS)
210
(8) Where a notice in writing signed by not less than one-tenth of the
total number of members of the House of the People has been given, of their
intention to move a resolution for disapproving, or, as the case may be, for
disapproving the continuance in force of, a Proclamation issued under
clause (1) or a Proclamation varying such Proclamation,—
(a) to the Speaker, if the House is in session; or
(b) to the President, if the House is not in session,
a special sitting of the House shall be held within fourteen days from the date
on which such notice is received by the Speaker, or, as the case may be, by the
President, for the purpose of considering such resolution.]
1[(9) The power conferred on the President by this article shall include
the power to issue different Proclamations on different grounds, being war or
external aggression or 2[armed rebellion] or imminent danger of war or external
aggression or 2[armed rebellion], whether or not there is a Proclamation
already issued by the President under clause (1) and such Proclamation is in
operation.
1* *
*
*
*
*
*
*
353. Effect of Proclamation of Emergency.—While a Proclamation
of Emergency is in operation, then—
(a) notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the executive
power of the Union shall extend to the giving of directions to any State
as to the manner in which the executive power thereof is to be
exercised;
(b) the power of Parliament to make laws with respect to any
matter shall include power to make laws conferring powers and
imposing duties, or authorising the conferring of powers and the
imposition of duties, upon the Union or officers and authorities of the
Union as respects that matter, notwithstanding that it is one which is not
enumerated in the Union List:
1. Cls. (4) and (5) ins. by the Constitution (Thirty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1975, s. 5 (with
retrospective effect) and subsequently cl. (4) renumbered as cl. (9) and cl. (5) omitted by
the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 37 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).
2. Subs. by s. 37, ibid. for "internal disturbance" (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).