THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part III.—Fundamental Rights)
15
(b) to manage its own affairs in matters of religion;
(c) to own and acquire movable and immovable property; and
(d) to administer such property in accordance with law.
27. Freedom as to payment of taxes for promotion of any particular
religion.—No person shall be compelled to pay any taxes, the proceeds of
which are specifically appropriated in payment of expenses for the promotion
or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination.
28. Freedom as to attendance at religious instruction or religious
worship in certain educational institutions.—(1) No religious instruction
shall be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of State
funds.
(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall apply to an educational institution which
is administered by the State but has been established under any endowment or
trust which requires that religious instruction shall be imparted in such
institution.
(3) No person attending any educational institution recognised by the
State or receiving aid out of State funds shall be required to take part in any
religious instruction that may be imparted in such institution or to attend any
religious worship that may be conducted in such institution or in any premises
attached thereto unless such person or, if such person is a minor, his guardian
has given his consent thereto.
Cultural and Educational Rights
29. Protection of interests of minorities.—(1) Any section of the
citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct
language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same.
(2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution
maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of
religion, race, caste, language or any of them.
30. Right of minorities to establish and administer educational
institutions.—(1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall
have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their
choice.