THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part IXB.—Co-operative Societies)
140
Provided also that in case of a co-operative society, other than a
multi-State co-operative society, carrying on the business of banking, the
provisions of this clause shall have the effect as if for the words “six months”,
the words “one year” had been substituted.
(2) In case of supersession of a board, the administrator appointed to
manage the affairs of such co-operative society shall arrange for conduct of
elections within the period specified in clause (1) and handover the
management to the elected board.
(3) The Legislature of a State may, by law, make provisions for the
conditions of service of the administrator.
243ZM. Audit of accounts of co-operative societies.—(1) The
Legislature of a State may, by law, make provisions with respect to the
maintenance of accounts by the co-operative societies and the auditing of such
accounts at least once in each financial year.
(2) The Legislature of a State shall, by law, lay down the minimum
qualifications and experience of auditors and auditing firms that shall be
eligible for auditing accounts of the co-operative societies.
(3) Every co-operative society shall cause to be audited by an auditor or
auditing firms referred to in clause (2) appointed by the general body of the
co-operative society:
Provided that such auditors or auditing firms shall be appointed from a
panel approved by a State Government or an authority authorised by the State
Government in this behalf.
(4) The accounts of every co-operative society shall be audited within
six months of the close of the financial year to which such accounts relate.
(5) The audit report of the accounts of an apex co-operative society, as
may be defined by the State Act, shall be laid before the State Legislature in the
manner, as may be provided by the State Legislature, by law.
243ZN. Convening of general body meetings.—The Legislature of a
State may, by law, make provisions that the annual general body meeting of
every co-operative society shall be convened within a period of six months of
close of the financial year to transact the business as may be provided in such
law.