THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
79
by or under any law made by Parliament, and the elections under the said
sub-clauses and under sub-clause (d) of the said clause shall be held in
accordance with the system of proportional representation by means of the
single transferable vote.
(5) The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub-clause (e)
of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical
experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely:—
Literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.
172. Duration of State Legislatures.—(1) Every Legislative Assembly
of every State, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for 1[five years] from the
date appointed for its first meeting and no longer and the expiration of the said
period of 1[five years] shall operate as a dissolution of the Assembly:
Provided that the said period may, while a Proclamation of Emergency is
in operation, be extended by Parliament by law for a period not exceeding one
year at a time and not extending in any case beyond a period of six months after
the Proclamation has ceased to operate.
(2) The Legislative Council of a State shall not be subject to dissolution,
but as nearly as possible one-third of the members thereof shall retire as soon as
may be on the expiration of every second year in accordance with the
provisions made in that behalf by Parliament by law.
173. Qualification for membership of the State Legislature.—A
person shall not be qualified to be chosen to fill a seat in the Legislature of a
State unless he—
2[(a) is a citizen of India, and makes and subscribes before some
person authorised in that behalf by the Election Commission an oath or
affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third
Schedule;]
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 30, for "five years"
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977) and further subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1978, s. 24, for "six years" (w.e.f. 6-9-1979).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963, s. 4, for cl. (a)
(w.e.f. 5-10-1963).