THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
80
(b) is, in the case of a seat in the Legislative Assembly, not less than
twenty-five years of age and, in the case of a seat in the Legislative
Council, not less than thirty years of age; and
(c) possesses such other qualifications as may be prescribed in that
behalf by or under any law made by Parliament.
1[174.
Sessions
of the State
Legislature,
prorogation
and
dissolution.—(1) The Governor shall from time to time summon the House or
each House of the Legislature of the State to meet at such time and place as he
thinks fit, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one
session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session.
(2) The Governor may from time to time—
(a) prorogue the House or either House;
(b) dissolve the Legislative Assembly.]
175. Right of Governor to address and send messages to the House
or Houses.—(1) The Governor may address the Legislative Assembly or, in
the case of a State having a Legislative Council, either House of the Legislature
of the State, or both Houses assembled together, and may for that purpose
require the attendance of members.
(2) The Governor may send messages to the House or Houses of the
Legislature of the State, whether with respect to a Bill then pending in the
Legislature or otherwise, and a House to which any message is so sent shall
with all convenient despatch consider any matter required by the message to be
taken into consideration.
176. Special address by the Governor.—(1) At the commencement of
2[the first session after each general election to the Legislative Assembly and at
the commencement of the first session of each year], the Governor shall
address the Legislative Assembly or, in the case of a State having a Legislative
Council, both Houses assembled together and inform the Legislature of the
causes of its summons.
(2) Provision shall be made by the rules regulating the procedure of the
House or either House for the allotment of time for discussion of the matters
referred to in such address 3***.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, s. 8, for art.174
(w.e.f. 18-6-1951).
2. Subs. by s. 9, ibid., for "every session" (w.e.f. 18-6-1951).
3. The words "and for the precedence of such discussion over other business of the
House" omitted by s. 9, ibid. (w.e.f. 18-6-1951).