THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
65
141. Law declared by Supreme Court to be binding on all courts.—
The law declared by the Supreme Court shall be binding on all courts within
the territory of India.
142. Enforcement of decrees and orders of the Supreme Court and
orders as to discovery, etc.—(1) The Supreme Court in the exercise of its
jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing
complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it, and any decree so
passed or order so made shall be enforceable throughout the territory of India in
such manner as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament
and, until provision in that behalf is so made, in such manner as the President
may by order1 prescribe.
(2) Subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by
Parliament, the Supreme Court shall, as respects the whole of the territory of
India, have all and every power to make any order for the purpose of securing
the attendance of any person, the discovery or production of any documents, or
the investigation or punishment of any contempt of itself.
143. Power of the President to consult the Supreme Court.—(1) If at
any time it appears to the President that a question of law or fact has arisen, or
is likely to arise, which is of such a nature and of such public importance that it
is expedient to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court upon it, he may refer
the question to that Court for consideration and the Court may, after such
hearing as it thinks fit, report to the President its opinion thereon.
(2) The President may, notwithstanding anything in 2*** the proviso to
article 131, refer a dispute of the kind mentioned in the 3[said proviso] to the
Supreme Court for opinion and the Supreme Court shall, after such hearing as it
thinks fit, report to the President its opinion thereon.
144. Civil and judicial authorities to act in aid of the Supreme
Court.—All authorities, civil and judicial, in the territory of India shall act in
aid of the Supreme Court.
4[144A. [Special provisions as to disposal of questions relating to
constitutional validity of laws.].—Omitted by the Constitution (Forty-third
Amendment) Act, 1977, s. 5 (w.e.f. 13-4-1978).]
145. Rules of Court, etc.—(1) Subject to the provisions of any law
made by Parliament, the Supreme Court may from time to time, with the
approval of the President, make rules for regulating generally the practice and
procedure of the Court including—
(a) rules as to the persons practising before the Court;
1. See the Supreme Court (Decrees and Orders) Enforcement Order, 1954 (C.O. 47).
2. The words, brackets and figure "clause (i) of" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. Subs. by s. 29 and Sch., ibid., for "said clause" (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
4. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 25 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).