THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
281
Provided that no order shall be made by the Governor under clauses (c),
(d), (e) and (f) of this sub-paragraph except after consideration of the report of
a Commission appointed under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 14 of this
Schedule:
1[Provided further that any order made by the Governor under this
sub-paragraph may contain such incidental and consequential provisions
(including any amendment of paragraph 20 and of any item in any of the
Parts of the said Table) as appear to the Governor to be necessary for giving
effect to the provisions of the order.]
22. Constitution of District Councils and Regional Councils.—
3[(1) There shall be a District Council for each autonomous district
consisting of not more than thirty members, of whom not more than four
persons shall be nominated by the Governor and the rest shall be elected on
the basis of adult suffrage.]
1. Ins. by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971 (81 of 1971), s. 71(i) and
Eighth Sch. (w.e.f. 21-1-1972).
2. Paragraph 2 has been amended in its application to the State of Assam by the Sixth
Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2003(44 of 2003), s. 2, so as to insert
the following proviso after sub-paragraph (1), namely: —
“Provided that the Bodoland Territorial Council shall consist of not more than
forty-six members of whom forty shall be elected on the basis of adult suffrage, of
whom thirty shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, five for non-tribal
communities, five open for all communities and the remaining six shall be nominated
by the Governor having same rights and privileges as other members, including voting
rights, from amongst the un-represented communities of the Bodoland Territorial
Areas District, of which at least two shall be women:”
Paragraph 2 has been amended in its application to the State of Assam by the Sixth
Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 1995(42 of 1995), s.2, so as to insert the
following proviso after sub-paragraph (3), namely :—
“Provided that the District Council constituted for the North Cachar Hills
District shall be called as the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council and the
District Council constituted for the Karbi Anglong District shall be called as the
Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council.”
Paragraph 2 has been amended in its application to the State of Assam by the Sixth
Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2003(44 of 2003), s. 2, so as to insert
the following proviso after sub-paragraph (3), namely:—
“Provided further that the District Council constituted for the Bodoland
Territorial Areas District shall be called the Bodoland Territorial Council.”
3. Subs. by the Assam Reorganisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969 (55 of 1969), s. 74 and
Fourth Sch., for sub-paraghaph (1) (w.e.f. 2-4-1970).