THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Fifth Schedule)
277
Provided that if the number of representatives of the Scheduled Tribes in
the Legislative Assembly of the State is less than the number of seats in the
Tribes Advisory Council to be filled by such representatives, the remaining
seats shall be filled by other members of those tribes.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Tribes Advisory Council to advise on such
matters pertaining to the welfare and advancement of the Scheduled Tribes in
the State as may be referred to them by the Governor 1***.
(3) The Governor 2*** may make rules prescribing or regulating, as the
case may be,—
(a) the number of members of the Council, the mode of their
appointment and the appointment of the Chairman of the Council and of
the officers and servants thereof;
(b) the conduct of its meetings and its procedure in general; and
(c) all other incidental matters.
5. Law applicable to Scheduled Areas.—(1) Notwithstanding anything
in this Constitution, the Governor 1*** may by public notification direct that
any particular Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of the State shall not
apply to a Scheduled Area or any part thereof in the State or shall apply to a
Scheduled Area or any part thereof in the State subject to such exceptions and
modifications as he may specify in the notification and any direction given
under this sub-paragraph may be given so as to have retrospective effect.
(2) The Governor may make regulations for the peace and good
government of any area in a State which is for the time being a Scheduled Area.
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may—
(a) prohibit or restrict the transfer of land by or among members
of the Scheduled Tribes in such area;
(b) regulate the allotment of land to members of the Scheduled
Tribes in such area;
1. The words "or Rajpramukh, as the case may be" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by s. 29 and Sch., ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).