THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
244
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two
years from the appointed day;
(p) all things done and all actions taken in or in relation to the State
of Sikkim or the territories comprised therein during the period
commencing on the appointed day and ending immediately before the
date on which the Constitution (Thirty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1975,
receives the assent of the President shall, in so far as they are in
conformity with the provisions of this Constitution as amended by the
Constitution (Thirty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1975, be deemed for all
purposes to have been validly done or taken under this Constitution as so
amended.]
1[371G. Special provision with respect to the State of Mizoram.—
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,—
(a) no Act of Parliament in respect of—
(i) religious or social practices of the Mizos;
(ii) Mizo customary law and procedure;
(iii) administration of civil and criminal justice involving
decisions according to Mizo customary law;
(iv) ownership and transfer of land;
shall apply to the State of Mizoram unless the Legislative Assembly of
the State of Mizoram by a resolution so decides:
Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to any Central Act in
force in the Union territory of Mizoram immediately before the
commencement of the Constitution (Fifty-third Amendment) Act, 1986;
(b) the Legislative Assembly of the State of Mizoram shall consist of
not less than forty members.]
2[371H. Special provision with respect to the State of Arunachal
Pradesh.—Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,—
(a) the Governor of Arunachal Pradesh shall have special
responsibility with respect to law and order in the State of Arunachal
Pradesh and in the discharge of his functions in relation thereto, the
Governor shall, after consulting the Council of Ministers, exercise his
individual judgment as to the action to be taken:
1. Art. 371G ins. by the Constitution (Fifty-third Amendment) Act, 1986.s. 2
(w.e.f. 20-2-1987).
2. Art. 371H ins. by the Constitution (Fifty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1986, s. 2
(w.e.f. 20-2-1987).