345
1[TENTH SCHEDULE
[Articles 102(2) and 191(2)]
Provisions as to disqualification on ground of defection
1. Interpretation.—In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) "House" means either House of Parliament or the Legislative
Assembly or, as the case may be, either House of the Legislature of a State;
(b) "legislature party", in relation to a member of a House
belonging to any political party in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 or 2*** paragraph 4, means the group consisting of all the
members of that House for the time being belonging to that political
party in accordance with the said provisions;
(c) "original political party", in relation to a member of a House,
means the political party to which he belongs for the purposes of sub-
paragraph (1) of paragraph 2;
(d) "paragraph" means a paragraph of this Schedule.
2. Disqualification on ground of defection.—(1) Subject to the
provisions of 3[paragraphs 4 and 5], a member of a House belonging to any
political party shall be disqualified for being a member of the House—
(a) if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such political
party; or
(b) if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to
any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs or by any
person or authority authorised by it in this behalf, without obtaining, in
either case, the prior permission of such political party, person or
authority and such voting or abstention has not been condoned by such
political party, person or authority within fifteen days from the date of
such voting or abstention.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-paragraph,—
(a) an elected member of a House shall be deemed to belong to
the political party, if any, by which he was set up as a candidate for
election as such member;
(b) a nominated member of a House shall,—
1. Tenth Schedule added by the Constitution (Fifty-second Amendment) Act, 1985, s. 6
(w.e.f. 1-3-1985).
2. Certain words omitted by the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 5
(w.e.f. 1-1-2004).
3. Subs. by s. 5, ibid., for "paragraphs 3, 4 and 5" (w.e.f. 1-1-2004).