THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
200
1[Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply for the purposes of
clause (3) of article 342A.]
339. Control of the Union over the administration of Scheduled
Areas and the welfare of Scheduled Tribes.—(1) The President may at any
time and shall, at the expiration of ten years from the commencement of this
Constitution by order appoint a Commission to report on the administration of
the Scheduled Areas and the welfare of the Scheduled Tribes in the States 2***.
The order may define the composition, powers and procedure of the
Commission and may contain such incidental or ancillary provisions as the
President may consider necessary or desirable.
(2) The executive power of the Union shall extend to the giving of
directions to 3[a State] as to the drawing up and execution of schemes specified
in the direction to be essential for the welfare of the Scheduled Tribes in the
State.
340. Appointment of a Commission to investigate the conditions of
backward classes.—(1) The President may by order appoint a Commission
consisting of such persons as he thinks fit to investigate the conditions of
socially and educationally backward classes within the territory of India and the
difficulties under which they labour and to make recommendations as to the
steps that should be taken by the Union or any State to remove such difficulties
and to improve their condition and as to the grants that should be made for the
purpose by the Union or any State and the conditions subject to which such
grants should be made, and the order appointing such Commission shall define
the procedure to be followed by the Commission.
(2) A Commission so appointed shall investigate the matters referred to
them and present to the President a report setting out the facts as found by them
and making such recommendations as they think proper.
(3) The President shall cause a copy of the report so presented together
with a memorandum explaining the action taken thereon to be laid before each
House of Parliament.
341. Scheduled Castes.—(1) The President 4[may with respect to any
State 5[or Union territory], and where it is a State 2***, after consultation with
1. Ins. by the Constitution (One Hundred and Fifth Amendment) Act, 2021, s. 2
(w.e.f. 15-9-2021).
2. The words and letters for "specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" omitted by
the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. Subs. by s. 29 and Sch. ibid. for "any such State" (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
4. Subs. by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, s. 10, for "may, after
consultation with the Governor or Rajpramukh of a State" (w.e.f. 18-6-1951).
5. Ins. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).