THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
72
160. Discharge of the functions of the Governor in certain
contingencies.—The President may make such provision as he thinks fit for the
discharge of the functions of the Governor of a State in any contingency not
provided for in this Chapter.
161. Power of Governor to grant pardons, etc., and to suspend, remit
or commute sentences in certain cases.—The Governor of a State shall have
the power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment or
to suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person convicted of any
offence against any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the
State extends.
162. Extent of executive power of State.—Subject to the provisions of
this Constitution, the executive power of a State shall extend to the matters with
respect to which the Legislature of the State has power to make laws:
Provided that in any matter with respect to which the Legislature of a
State and Parliament have power to make laws, the executive power of the
State shall be subject to, and limited by, the executive power expressly
conferred by this Constitution or by any law made by Parliament upon the
Union or authorities thereof.
Council of Ministers
163. Council of Ministers to aid and advise Governor.—(1) There shall
be a Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister at the head to aid and advise the
Governor in the exercise of his functions, except in so far as he is by or under this
Constitution required to exercise his functions or any of them in his discretion.
(2) If any question arises whether any matter is or is not a matter as
respects which the Governor is by or under this Constitution required to act in
his discretion, the decision of the Governor in his discretion shall be final, and
the validity of anything done by the Governor shall not be called in question on
the ground that he ought or ought not to have acted in his discretion.
(3) The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by
Ministers to the Governor shall not be inquired into in any court.
164. Other provisions as to Ministers.—(1) The Chief Minister shall
be appointed by the Governor and the other Ministers shall be appointed by the
Governor on the advice of the Chief Minister, and the Ministers shall hold
office during the pleasure of the Governor: