THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
192
Assam, the representation of the Scheduled Tribes and non-Scheduled Tribes in
the constituencies included in the Bodoland Territorial Areas District, so
notified, and existing prior to the constitution of Bodoland Territorial Areas
District, shall be maintained.]
1[332A. Reservation of seats for women in the Legislative
Assemblies of the States.— (1) Seats shall be reserved for women in the
Legislative Assembly of every State.
(2) As nearly as may be, one-third of the total number of seats reserved
under clause (3) of article 332 shall be reserved for women belonging to the
Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes.
(3) As nearly as may be , one-third (including the number of seats
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Sceduled
Tribes) of the total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the
Legislative Assembly of every State shall be reserved for women.]
333. Representation of the Anglo-Indian community in the
Legislative Assemblies of the States.—Notwithstanding anything in article
170, the Governor 2*** of a State may, if he is of opinion that the Anglo-Indian
community needs representation in the Legislative Assembly of the State and is
not adequately represented therein, 3[nominate one member of that community
to the Assembly].
334. 4[Reservation of seats and special representation to cease after
certain period].—Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this
Part, the provisions of this Constitution relating to—
(a) the reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People and in the Legislative
Assemblies of the States; and
(b) the representation of the Anglo-Indian community in the
House of the People and in the Legislative Assemblies of the States by
nomination,
1.Ins. by the Constitution (One Hundred and Sixth Amendment) Act, 2023, s.4 (date yet to be
notified).
2. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956,
s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. Subs. by the Constitution (Twenty-third Amendment) Act, 1969, s. 4, for "nominate such
number of members of the community to the Assembly as he considers appropriate"
(w.e.f. 23-1-1970).
4. Subs. by the Constitution (One hundred and fourth Amendment) Act, 2019, s. 2, for
marginal heading (w.e.f. 25-1-2020).