THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
240
(5) The Order of the Administrative Tribunal finally disposing of any
case shall become effective upon its confirmation by the State Government or
on the expiry of three months from the date on which the order is made,
whichever is earlier:
Provided that the State Government may, by special order made in
writing and for reasons to be specified therein, modify or annul any order of the
Administrative Tribunal before it becomes effective and in such a case, the
order of the Administrative Tribunal shall have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be.
(6) Every special order made by the State Government under the proviso
to clause (5) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before both
Houses of the State Legislature.
(7) The High Court for the State shall not have any powers of
superintendence over the Administrative Tribunal and no court (other than the
Supreme Court) or tribunal shall exercise any jurisdiction, power or authority in
respect of any matter subject to the jurisdiction, power or authority of, or in
relation to, the Administrative Tribunal.
(8) If the President is satisfied that the continued existence of the
Administrative Tribunal is not necessary, the President may by order abolish
the Administrative Tribunal and make such provisions in such order as he may
deem fit for the transfer and disposal of cases pending before the Tribunal
immediately before such abolition.
(9) Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal
or other authority,—
(a) no appointment, posting, promotion or transfer of any person—
(i) made before the 1st day of November, 1956, to any post
under the Government of, or any local authority within, the State
of Hyderabad as it existed before that date; or
(ii) made before the commencement of the Constitution
(Thirty-second Amendment) Act, 1973, to any post under the
Government of, or any local or other authority within, the State of
Andhra Pradesh; and
(b) no action taken or thing done by or before any person referred to
in sub-clause (a),
In P. Sambamurthy and Others Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and Others (1987)
1 S.C.C. 362, the Supreme Court declared cl. (5) of art. 371D along with the proviso to
be unconstitutional and void.