THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
35
(5) A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a
member of either House of Parliament shall at the expiration of that period cease
to be a Minister.
(6) The salaries and allowances of Ministers shall be such as Parliament
may from time to time by law determine and, until Parliament so determines,
shall be as specified in the Second Schedule.
The Attorney-General for India
76. Attorney-General for India.—(1) The President shall appoint a
person who is qualified to be appointed a Judge of the Supreme Court to be
Attorney-General for India.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Attorney-General to give advice to the
Government of India upon such legal matters, and to perform such other duties
of a legal character, as may from time to time be referred or assigned to him by
the President, and to discharge the functions conferred on him by or under this
Constitution or any other law for the time being in force.
(3) In the performance of his duties the Attorney-General shall have
right of audience in all courts in the territory of India.
(4) The Attorney-General shall hold office during the pleasure of the
President, and shall receive such remuneration as the President may determine.
Conduct of Government Business
77. Conduct of business of the Government of India.—(1) All
executive action of the Government of India shall be expressed to be taken in
the name of the President.
(2) Orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the
President shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules1 to
be made by the President, and the validity of an order or instrument which is so
authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order
or instrument made or executed by the President.
(3) The President shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of
the business of the Government of India, and for the allocation among
Ministers of the said business.
2(4) *
*
*
*
1. See notifin No. S.O. 2297, dated the 3rd November, 1958, Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Pt. II, Sec. 3 (ii), , as amended from time to time.
2. Cl. (4) was ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s.14
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977) and omitted by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1978, s. 12 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).