THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
30
Provided that during any period when the Vice-President acts as
President or discharges the functions of the President under article 65, he shall
not perform the duties of the office of Chairman of the Council of States and
shall not be entitled to any salary or allowance payable to the Chairman of the
Council of States under article 97.
65. The Vice-President to act as President or to discharge his
functions during casual vacancies in the office, or during the absence,
of President.—(1) In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office
of the President by reason of his death, resignation or removal, or otherwise,
the Vice-President shall act as President until the date on which a new
President elected in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter to fill such
vacancy enters upon his office.
(2) When the President is unable to discharge his functions owing to
absence, illness or any other cause, the Vice-President shall discharge his
functions until the date on which the President resumes his duties.
(3) The Vice-President shall, during, and in respect of, the period while
he is so acting as, or discharging the functions of, President, have all the
powers and immunities of the President and be entitled to such emoluments,
allowances and privileges as may be determined by Parliament by law and,
until provision in that behalf is so made, such emoluments, allowances and
privileges as are specified in the Second Schedule.
66. Election of Vice-President.—(1) The Vice-President shall be
elected by the 1[members of an electoral college consisting of the members of
both Houses of Parliament] in accordance with the system of proportional
representation by means of the single transferable vote and the voting at such
election shall be by secret ballot.
(2) The Vice-President shall not be a member of either House of
Parliament or of a House of the Legislature of any State, and if a member of
either House of Parliament or of a House of the Legislature of any State be
elected Vice-President, he shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in that
House on the date on which he enters upon his office as Vice-President.
(3) No person shall be eligible for election as Vice-President unless he—
(a) is a citizen of India;
(b) has completed the age of thirty-five years; and
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Eleventh Amendment) Act, 1961, s. 2, for "members of both
Houses of Parliament assembled at a joint meeting" (w.e.f. 19-12-1961).