THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIX.—MISCELLANEOUS)
221
(ii) under a body, whether incorporated or not, which is
wholly or partially owned by the Government of India or the
Government of State, and the salary or remuneration for such
office is paid by such body,
except where such salary or remuneration paid is compensatory in nature.]
362. [Rights and privileges of Rulers of Indian States.].—Omitted by the
Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, s. 2 (w.e.f. 28-12-1971).
363. Bar to interference by courts in disputes arising out of certain
treaties, agreements, etc.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution
but subject to the provisions of article 143, neither the Supreme Court nor any
other court shall have jurisdiction in any dispute arising out of any provision of
a treaty, agreement, covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar instrument
which was entered into or executed before the commencement of this
Constitution by any Ruler of an Indian State and to which the Government of
the Dominion of India or any of its predecessor Governments was a party and
which has or has been continued in operation after such commencement, or in
any dispute in respect of any right accruing under or any liability or obligation
arising out of any of the provisions of this Constitution relating to any such
treaty, agreement, covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar instrument.
(2) In this article—
(a) “Indian State” means any territory recognised before the
commencement of this Constitution by His Majesty or the Government
of the Dominion of India as being such a State; and
(b) “Ruler” includes the Prince, Chief or other person recognised
before such commencement by His Majesty or the Government of the
Dominion of India as the Ruler of any Indian State.
1[363A. Recognition granted to Rulers of Indian States to cease and
privy purses to be abolished.—Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution
or in any law for the time being in force—
(a) the Prince, Chief or other person who, at any time before
the commencement of the Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amendment)
Act, 1971, was recognised by the President as the Ruler of an Indian
State or any person who, at any time before such commencement, was
recognised by the President as the successor of such ruler shall, on and
from such commencement, cease to be recognised as such Ruler or the
successor of such Ruler;
1. Art. 363A ins. by the Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, s. 3
(w.e.f. 28-12-1971).