THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
31
(c) is qualified for election as a member of the Council of States.
(4) A person shall not be eligible for election as Vice-President if he
holds any office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of
any State or under any local or other authority subject to the control of any of
the said Governments.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this article, a person shall not be
deemed to hold any office of profit by reason only that he is the President or
Vice-President of the Union or the Governor 1*** of any State or is a Minister
either for the Union or for any State.
67. Term of office of Vice-President.—The Vice-President shall hold
office for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office:
Provided that—
(a) a Vice-President may, by writing under his hand addressed to the
President, resign his office;
(b) a Vice-President may be removed from his office by a resolution
of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of
the Council and agreed to by the House of the People; but no resolution
for the purpose of this clause shall be moved unless at least fourteen
days' notice has been given of the intention to move the resolution;
(c) a Vice-President shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his term,
continue to hold office until his successor enters upon his office.
68. Time of holding election to fill vacancy in the office of Vice-
President and the term of office of person elected to fill casual vacancy.—
(1) An election to fill a vacancy caused by the expiration of the term of office
of Vice-President shall be completed before the expiration of the term.
(2) An election to fill a vacancy in the office of Vice-President
occurring by reason of his death, resignation or removal, or otherwise shall be
held as soon as possible after the occurrence of the vacancy, and the person
elected to fill the vacancy shall, subject to the provisions of article 67, be
entitled to hold office for the full term of five years from the date on which he
enters upon his office.
69. Oath or affirmation by the Vice-President.—Every Vice-
President shall, before entering upon his office, make and subscribe before the
1. The words "or Rajpramukh or Uparajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).