THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
299
(c) the President may, with respect to any Act of Parliament,
by notification, direct that it shall not apply to an autonomous district
or an autonomous region in the State of Mizoram, or shall apply to
such district or region or any part thereof, subject to such exceptions
or modifications as he may specify in the notification and any such
direction may be given so as to have retrospective effect.]]
13. Estimated receipts and expenditure pertaining to autonomous
districts to be shown separately in the annual financial statement.—The
estimated receipts and expenditure pertaining to an autonomous district
which are to be credited to, or is to be made from, the Consolidated Fund of
the State 1*** shall be first placed before the District Council for discussion
and then after such discussion be shown separately in the annual financial
statement of the State to be laid before the Legislature of the State under
article 202.
214. Appointment of Commission to inquire into and report on
the administration of autonomous districts and autonomous regions.—
(1) The Governor may at any time appoint a Commission to examine and
report on any matter specified by him relating to the administration of the
autonomous districts and autonomous regions in the State, including matters
specified in clauses (c), (d), (e) and (f) of sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 1
of this Schedule, or may appoint a Commission to inquire into and report
from time to time on the administration of autonomous districts and
autonomous regions in the State generally and in particular on—
(a) the provision of educational and medical facilities and
communications in such districts and regions;
(b) the need for any new or special legislation in respect of
such districts and regions; and
(c) the administration of the laws, rules and regulations made
by the District and Regional Councils;
and define the procedure to be followed by such Commission.
1. The words "of Assam" omitted by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation)
Act, 1971 (81 of 1971), s. 71(i) and Eighth Sch. (w.e.f. 21-1-1972).
2. Paragraph 14 has been amended in its application to the State of Assam by the
Sixth Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 1995 (42 of 1995), s. 2
(w.e.f. 12-9-1995) as under:—
‘in paragraph 14, in sub-paragraph (2), the words “with the recommendations
of the Governor with respect thereto” shall be omitted.’.