THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part I.—Union and its territory)
3
1[Provided that no Bill for the purpose shall be introduced in
either House of Parliament except on the recommendation of the
President and unless, where the proposal contained in the Bill affects
the area, boundaries or name of any of the States12***, the Bill has
been referred by the President to the Legislature of that State for
expressing its views thereon within such period as may be specified in
the reference or within such further period as the President may allow
and the period so specified or allowed has expired.]
3[Explanation I.—In this article, in clauses (a) to (e), “State”
includes a Union territory, but in the proviso, “State” does not include a
Union territory.
Explanation II.—The power conferred on Parliament by
clause (a) includes the power to form a new State or Union territory by
uniting a part of any State or Union territory to any other State or
Union territory.]
4. Laws made under articles 2 and 3 to provide for the
amendment of the First and the Fourth Schedules and
supplemental, incidental and consequential matters.—(1) Any law
referred to in article 2 or article 3 shall contain such provisions for the
amendment of the First Schedule and the Fourth Schedule as may be
necessary to give effect to the provisions of the law and may also
contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions
(including provisions as to representation in Parliament and in the
Legislature or Legislatures of the State or States affected by such law)
as Parliament may deem necessary.
(2) No such law as aforesaid shall be deemed to be an
amendment of this Constitution for the purposes of article 368.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Fifth Amendment) Act, 1955, s. 2, for the proviso
(w.e.f. 24-12-1955).
2. The words and letters "specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" omitted by the
Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. Ins. by the Constitution (Eighteenth Amendment) Act, 1966, s. 2 (w.e.f. 27-8-1966).