THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
71
Provided that a Governor shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his
term, continue to hold office until his successor enters upon his office.
157. Qualifications for appointment as Governor.—No person shall
be eligible for appointment as Governor unless he is a citizen of India and has
completed the age of thirty-five years.
158. Conditions of Governor's office.—(1) The Governor shall not be a
member of either House of Parliament or of a House of the Legislature of any
State specified in the First Schedule, and if a member of either House of
Parliament or of a House of the Legislature of any such State be appointed
Governor, he shall be deemed to have vacated his seat in that House on the date
on which he enters upon his office as Governor.
(2) The Governor shall not hold any other office of profit.
(3) The Governor shall be entitled without payment of rent to the use of
his official residences and shall be also entitled to such emoluments,
allowances and privileges as may be determined by Parliament by law and,
until provision in that behalf is so made, such emoluments, allowances and
privileges as are specified in the Second Schedule.
1[(3A) Where the same person is appointed as Governor of two or more
States, the emoluments and allowances payable to the Governor shall be allocated
among the States in such proportion as the President may by order determine.]
(4) The emoluments and allowances of the Governor shall not be
diminished during his term of office.
159. Oath or affirmation by the Governor.—Every Governor and
every person discharging the functions of the Governor shall, before entering
upon his office, make and subscribe in the presence of the Chief Justice of the
High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to the State, or, in his absence, the
senior most Judge of that Court available, an oath or affirmation in the
following form, that is to say—
“I, A. B., do swear in the name of God that I will faithfully execute the
solemnly affirm
office of Governor (or discharge the functions of the Governor) of
(name of the State) and will to the best of my ability preserve, protect
and defend the Constitution and the law and that I will devote myself to the
service and well-being of the people of ..……(name of the State).”.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 7 (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).