THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XII.—Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits)
170
299. Contracts.—(1) All contracts made in the exercise of the executive
power of the Union or of a State shall be expressed to be made by the
President, or by the Governor 1*** of the State, as the case may be, and all such
contracts and all assurances of property made in the exercise of that power shall
be executed on behalf of the President or the Governor 1*** by such persons
and in such manner as he may direct or authorise.
(2) Neither the President nor the Governor 2*** shall be personally liable
in respect of any contract or assurance made or executed for the purposes of
this Constitution, or for the purposes of any enactment relating to the
Government of India heretofore in force, nor shall any person making or
executing any such contract or assurance on behalf of any of them be
personally liable in respect thereof.
300. Suits and proceedings.—(1) The Government of India may sue or
be sued by the name of the Union of India and the Government of a State may
sue or be sued by the name of the State and may, subject to any provisions
which may be made by Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of such State
enacted by virtue of powers conferred by this Constitution, sue or be sued in
relation to their respective affairs in the like cases as the Dominion of India and
the corresponding Provinces or the corresponding Indian States might have
sued or been sued if this Constitution had not been enacted.
(2) If at the commencement of this Constitution—
(a) any legal proceedings are pending to which the Dominion of
India is a party, the Union of India shall be deemed to be substituted for
the Dominion in those proceedings; and
(b) any legal proceedings are pending to which a Province or an
Indian State is a party, the corresponding State shall be deemed to be
substituted for the Province or the Indian State in those proceedings.
3[CHAPTER IV.—RIGHT TO PROPERTY
300A. Persons not to be deprived of property save by authority of
law.— No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.]
1. The words "or the Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)
Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. The words "nor the Rajpramukh" omitted by s. 29 and Sch., ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 34 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).