THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVIII.—EMERGENCY PROVISIONS)
211
1[Provided that where a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation only
in any part of the territory of India,—
(i) the executive power of the Union to give directions under
clause (a), and
(ii) the power of Parliament to make laws under clause (b),
shall also extend to any State other than a State in which or in any part of
which the Proclamation of Emergency is in operation if and in so far as the
security of India or any part of the territory thereof is threatened by activities in
or in relation to the part of the territory of India in which the Proclamation of
Emergency is in operation.]
354. Application of provisions relating to distribution of revenues
while a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation.—(1) The President
may, while a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, by order direct that
all or any of the provisions of articles 268 to 279 shall for such period, not
extending in any case beyond the expiration of the financial year in which such
Proclamation ceases to operate, as may be specified in the order, have effect
subject to such exceptions or modifications as he thinks fit.
(2) Every order made under clause (1) shall, as soon as may be after it is
made, be laid before each House of Parliament.
355. Duty of the Union to protect States against external aggression
and internal disturbance.—It shall be the duty of the Union to protect every
State against external aggression and internal disturbance and to ensure that the
Government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of
this Constitution.
356. Provisions in case of failure of constitutional machinery in
States.—(1) If the President, on receipt of a report from the Governor 2*** of a
State or otherwise, is satisfied that a situation has arisen in which the
Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the
provisions of this Constitution, the President may by Proclamation—
1. Added by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 49
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
2. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)
Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).