THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
231
1[370. Temporary provisions with respect to the State of Jammu
and Kashmir.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,—
(a) the provisions of article 238 shall not apply in relation to the State
of Jammu and Kashmir;
(b) the power of Parliament to make laws for the said State shall be
limited to—
(i) those matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List
which, in consultation with the Government of the State, are declared
by the President to correspond to matters specified in the Instrument
of Accession governing the accession of the State to the Dominion of
India as the matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature
may make laws for that State; and
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 370 read with clause (1) of
article 370 of the Constitution of India, the President, on the recommendation of
Parliament, is pleased to declare that, as from the 6th August, 2019 all clauses of said
article 370 shall cease to be operative except the following which shall read as under,
namely:—
“370. All provisions of this Constitution, as amended from time to time,
without any modifications or exceptions, shall apply to the State of Jammu and
Kashmir notwithstanding anything contrary contained in article 152 or article 308 or
any other article of this Constitution or any other provision of the Constitution of
Jammu and Kashmir or any law, document, judgment, ordinance, order, by-law, rule,
regulation, notification, custom or usage having the force of law in the territory of
India, or any other instrument, treaty or agreement as envisaged under article 363 or
otherwise.”.
(See Appendix III) (C.O. 273).
1. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of the Constitution of India, the
President, on the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State of Jammu
and Kashmir, declared that, as from the 17th day of November, 1952, the said art. 370
shall be operative with the modification that for the Explanation in cl. (1) thereof, the
following Explanation is substituted, namely:—
“Explanation.–For the purposes of this article, the Government of the State means
the person for the time being recognised by the President on the recommendation of
the Legislative Assembly of the State as the *Sadar-I-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir,
acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers of the State for the time being in
office.”.
(C.O. 44, dated the 15th November, 1952).
*Now “Governor”.