THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
106
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the
High Court may—
(a) call for returns from such courts;
(b) make and issue general rules and prescribe forms for regulating
the practice and proceedings of such courts; and
(c) prescribe forms in which books, entries and accounts shall be kept
by the officers of any such courts.
(3) The High Court may also settle tables of fees to be allowed to the
sheriff and all clerks and officers of such courts and to attorneys, advocates and
pleaders practising therein:
Provided that any rules made, forms prescribed or tables settled under
clause (2) or clause (3) shall not be inconsistent with the provision of any law
for the time being in force, and shall require the previous approval of the
Governor.
(4) Nothing in this article shall be deemed to confer on a High Court
powers of superintendence over any court or tribunal constituted by or under
any law relating to the Armed Forces.
1(5)* * * *
228. Transfer of certain cases to High Court.—If the High Court is
satisfied that a case pending in a court subordinate to it involves a substantial
question of law as to the interpretation of this Constitution the determination of
which is necessary for the disposal of the case, 2[it shall withdraw the case and
3*** may—]
(a) either dispose of the case itself, or
(b) determine the said question of law and return the case to the
court from which the case has been so withdrawn together with a copy of
its judgment on such question, and the said court shall on receipt thereof
proceed to dispose of the case in conformity with such judgment.
1. Cl. (5) was ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 40
(w.e.f. 1-2-1977) and omitted by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1978, s. 31 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 41, for "it shall
withdraw the case and may—" (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. The words, figures and letter, "subject to the provisions of article 131A," omitted by
the Constitution (Forty-third Amendment) Act, 1977, s. 9 (w.e.f. 13-4-1978).