THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
284
Provided that until rules are made by the District or the Regional
Council under this sub-paragraph the rules made by the Governor under
sub-paragraph (6) of this paragraph shall have effect in respect of elections
to, the officers and staff of, and the procedure and the conduct of business
in, each such Council.
1*
*
*
*
2-323. Powers of the District Councils and Regional Councils to
make laws.—(1) The Regional Council for an autonomous region in
1. Second proviso omitted by s. 74 and Fourth Sch. of the Assam Reorganisation (Meghalaya)
Act, 1969 (55 of 1969) (w.e.f. 2-4-1970).
2. Paragraph 3 has been amended in its application to the State of Assam by the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2003 (44 of 2003), s. 2, so as to substitute sub-paragraph (3) as
under (w.e.f. 7-9-2003),—
“(3) Save as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 3A or sub-paragraph
(2) of paragraph 3B, all laws made under this paragraph or sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 3A
or sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 3B shall be submitted forthwith to the Governor and, until
assented to by him, shall have no effect.” .
After paragraph 3, the following paragraph has been inserted in its application to the State of
Assam by the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 1995 (42 of 1995), s. 2,
(w.e.f. 12-9-1995), namely: —
“3A. Additional powers of the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council and the
Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council to make laws.—(1) Without prejudice to the
provisions of paragraph 3, the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council and the Karbi
Anglong Autonomous Council within their respective districts, shall have power to make
laws with respect to—
(a)
industries, subject to the provisions of entries 7 and 52 of List I of the Seventh
Schedule;
(b) communications, that is to say, roads, bridges, ferries and other means of
communication not specified in List I of the Seventh Schedule; municipal tramways,
ropeways, inland waterways and traffic thereon subject to the provisions of List I and
List III of the Seventh Schedule with regard to such waterways; vehicles other than
mechanically propelled vehicles;
(c)
preservation, protection and improvement of stock and prevention of animal
diseases; veterinary training and practice; cattle pounds;
(d) primary and secondary education;
(e)
agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pests
and prevention of plant diseases;
(f)
fisheries;