THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIV.—Services under the Union and the States)
182
(5) All regulations made under the proviso to clause (3) by the President
or the Governor 1*** of a State shall be laid for not less than fourteen days
before each House of Parliament or the House or each House of the Legislature
of the State, as the case may be, as soon as possible after they are made, and
shall be subject to such modifications, whether by way of repeal or amendment,
as both Houses of Parliament or the House or both Houses of the Legislature of
the State may make during the session in which they are so laid.
321. Power to extend functions of Public Service Commissions.—An
Act made by Parliament or, as the case may be, the Legislature of a State may
provide for the exercise of additional functions by the Union Public Service
Commission or the State Public Service Commission as respects the services of
the Union or the State and also as respects the services of any local authority or
other body corporate constituted by law or of any public institution.
322. Expenses of Public Service Commissions.—The expenses of the
Union or a State Public Service Commission, including any salaries,
allowances and pensions payable to or in respect of the members or staff of the
Commission, shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India or, as the case
may be, the Consolidated Fund of the State.
323. Reports of Public Service Commissions.—(1) It shall be the duty
of the Union Commission to present annually to the President a report as to the
work done by the Commission and on receipt of such report the President shall
cause a copy thereof together with a memorandum explaining, as respects the
cases, if any, where the advice of the Commission was not accepted, the
reasons for such non-acceptance to be laid before each House of Parliament.
(2) It shall be the duty of a State Commission to present annually to the
Governor 1*** of the State a report as to the work done by the Commission,
and it shall be the duty of a Joint Commission to present annually to the
Governor 1*** of each of the States the needs of which are served by the Joint
Commission a report as to the work done by the Commission in relation to that
State, and in either case the Governor 2***, shall, on receipt of such report,
cause a copy thereof together with a memorandum explaining, as respects the
cases, if any, where the advice of the Commission was not accepted, the
reasons for such non-acceptance to be laid before the Legislature of the State.
1. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)
Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. The words "or Rajpramukh, as the case may be" omitted by s. 29 and Sch. ibid.
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).