THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
95
for the authorisation of appropriation of moneys out of the Consolidated Fund
of the State to meet such expenditure.
207. Special provisions as to financial Bills.—(1) A Bill or amendment
making provision for any of the matters specified in sub-clauses (a) to (f) of
clause (1) of article 199 shall not be introduced or moved except on the
recommendation of the Governor, and a Bill making such provision shall not be
introduced in a Legislative Council:
Provided that no recommendation shall be required under this clause for
the moving of an amendment making provision for the reduction or abolition of
any tax.
(2) A Bill or amendment shall not be deemed to make provision for any
of the matters aforesaid by reason only that it provides for the imposition of
fines or other pecuniary penalties, or for the demand or payment of fees for
licences or fees for services rendered, or by reason that it provides for the
imposition, abolition, remission, alteration or regulation of any tax by any local
authority or body for local purposes.
(3) A Bill which, if enacted and brought into operation, would involve
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of a State shall not be passed by a
House of the Legislature of the State unless the Governor has recommended to
that House the consideration of the Bill.
Procedure Generally
208. Rules of procedure.—(1) A House of the Legislature of a State
may make rules for regulating, subject to the provisions of this Constitution, its
procedure and the conduct of its business.
(2) Until rules are made under clause (1), the rules of procedure and
standing orders in force immediately before the commencement of this
Constitution with respect to the Legislature for the corresponding Province shall
have effect in relation to the Legislature of the State subject to such modifications
and adaptations as may be made therein by the Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly, or the Chairman of the Legislative Council, as the case may be.
(3) In a State having a Legislative Council the Governor, after
consultation with the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly and the Chairman of
The brackets and words "(including the quorum to constitute a meeting of the House)"
ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 35 (date not notified).
This amendment was omitted by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act,
1978, s. 45 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).