THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIX.—MISCELLANEOUS)
227
(e) a tax on the supply of goods by any unincorporated
association or body of persons to a member thereof for cash,
deferred payment or other valuable consideration;
(f) a tax on the supply, by way of or as part of any service
or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any
other article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not
intoxicating), where such supply or service, is for cash, deferred
payment or other valuable consideration,
and such transfer, delivery or supply of any goods shall be deemed to be
a sale of those goods by the person making the transfer, delivery or
supply and a purchase of those goods by the person to whom such
transfer, delivery or supply is made;]
1[(30) "Union territory" means any Union territory specified in the
First Schedule and includes any other territory comprised within the
territory of India but not specified in that Schedule.]
367. Interpretation.—(1) Unless the context otherwise requires, the
General Clauses Act, 1897, shall, subject to any adaptations and modifications
that may be made therein under article 372, apply for the interpretation of this
Constitution as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of the Legislature of
the Dominion of India.
(2) Any reference in this Constitution to Acts or laws of, or made by,
Parliament, or to Acts or laws of, or made by, the Legislature of a State 2***,
shall be construed as including a reference to an Ordinance made by the
President or, to an Ordinance made by a Governor 3***, as the case may be.
(3) For the purposes of this Constitution “foreign State” means any State
other than India:
Provided that, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament,
the President may by order4 declare any State not to be a foreign State for such
purposes as may be specified in the order.
5[(4) * * * *]
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. for cl. (30)
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. The words and letters "specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" omitted by
s. 29 and Sch., ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by s. 29 and Sch., ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
4. See the Constitution (Declaration as to Foreign States) Order, 1950 (C.O. 2).
5. Added by the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 2019
(C.O. 272) (w.e.f. 5-8-2019), for the text of this C.O., see Appendix II.