THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
40
1[85. Sessions of Parliament, prorogation and dissolution.—(1) The
President shall from time to time summon each House of Parliament to meet at
such time and place as he thinks fit, but six months shall not intervene between
its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the
next session.
(2) The President may from time to time—
(a) prorogue the Houses or either House;
(b) dissolve the House of the People.]
86. Right of President to address and send messages to Houses.—(1)
The President may address either House of Parliament or both Houses
assembled together, and for that purpose require the attendance of members.
(2) The President may send messages to either House of Parliament,
whether with respect to a Bill then pending in Parliament or otherwise, and a
House to which any message is so sent shall with all convenient despatch
consider any matter required by the message to be taken into consideration.
87. Special address by the President.—(1) At the commencement of
2[the first session after each general election to the House of the People and at
the commencement of the first session of each year] the President shall address
both Houses of Parliament assembled together and inform Parliament of the
causes of its summons.
(2) Provision shall be made by the rules regulating the procedure of
either House for the allotment of time for discussion of the matters referred to
in such address 3***.
88. Rights of Ministers and Attorney-General as respects Houses.—
Every Minister and the Attorney-General of India shall have the right to speak
in, and otherwise to take part in the proceedings of, either House, any joint
sitting of the Houses, and any committee of Parliament of which he may be
named a member, but shall not by virtue of this article be entitled to vote.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, s. 6, for art. 85
(w.e.f. 18-6-1951).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, s. 7, for "every session"
(w.e.f. 18-6-1951).
3. The words "and for the precedence of such discussion over other business of the House"
omitted by s. 7, ibid. (w.e.f. 18-6-1951).