THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
289
(4) A Regional Council or District Council, as the case may be, may
with the previous approval of the Governor make rules regulating —
(a) the constitution of village councils and courts and the
powers to be exercised by them under this paragraph;
(b) the procedure to be followed by village councils or courts in
the trial of suits and cases under sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph;
(c) the procedure to be followed by the Regional or District
Council or any court constituted by such Council in appeals and other
proceedings under sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph;
(d) the enforcement of decisions and orders of such councils
and courts;
(e) all other ancillary matters for the carrying out of the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph.
1[(5) On and from such date as the President may, 2[after consulting the
Government of the State concerned], by notification appoint in this behalf, this
paragraph shall have effect in relation to such autonomous district or region as
may be specified in the notification, as if—
(i) in sub-paragraph (1), for the words “between the parties all of
whom belong to Scheduled Tribes within such areas, other than suits
and cases to which the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 5
of this Schedule apply,”, the words “not being suits and cases of the
nature referred to in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph (5) of this
Schedule, which the Governor may specify in this behalf,” had been
substituted;
(ii) sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) had been omitted;
(iii) in sub-paragraph (4)—
(a) for the words “A Regional Council or District
Council, as the case may be, may with the previous approval of
the Governor make rules regulating”, the words “the Governor
may make rules regulating” had been substituted; and
(b) for clause (a), the following clause had been
substituted, namely:—
1. Ins. by the Assam Reorganisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969 (55 of 1969), s. 74 and
Fourth Sch. (w.e.f. 2-4-1970).
2. Subs. by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971 (81 of 1971), s. 71(i)
and Eighth Sch., for certain words (w.e.f. 21-1-1972).