THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
245
Provided that if any question arises whether any matter is or is not a
matter as respects which the Governor is under this clause required to act
in the exercise of his individual judgment, the decision of the Governor in
his discretion shall be final, and the validity of anything done by the
Governor shall not be called in question on the ground that he ought or
ought not to have acted in the exercise of his individual judgment:
Provided further that if the President on receipt of a report from
the Governor or otherwise is satisfied that it is no longer necessary for
the Governor to have special responsibility with respect to law and order
in the State of Arunachal Pradesh, he may by order direct that the
Governor shall cease to have such responsibility with effect from such
date as may be specified in the order;
(b) the Legislative Assembly of the State of Arunachal Pradesh
shall consist of not less than thirty members.]
1[371-I. Special provision with respect to the State of Goa.—
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the Legislative Assembly of the
State of Goa shall consist of not less than thirty members.]
2[371J. Special provisions with respect to State of Karnataka.—
(1) The President may, by order made with respect to the State of Karnataka,
provide for any special responsibility of the Governor for—
(a) establishment of a separate development board for Hyderabad-
Karnataka region with the provision that a report on the working of the
board will be placed each year before the State Legislative Assembly;
(b) equitable allocation of funds for developmental expenditure
over the said region, subject to the requirements of the State as a whole;
and
(c) equitable opportunities and facilities for the people belonging
to the said region, in matters of public employment, education and
vocational training, subject to the requirements of the State as a whole.
(2) An order made under sub- clause (c) of clause (1) may provide for—
(a) reservation of a proportion of seats educational and vocational
training institutions in the Hyderabad-Karnataka region for students who
belong to that region by birth or by domicile; and
1.
Art. 371-I ins. by the Constitution (Fifty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1987, s. 2
(w.e.f. 30-5-1987).
2. Art. 371J ins. by the Constitution (Ninety-eighth Amendment) Act, 2012, s. 2 (w.e.f.
1-10-2013).