THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
28
57. Eligibility for re-election.—A person who holds, or who has held,
office as President shall, subject to the other provisions of this Constitution, be
eligible for re-election to that office.
58. Qualifications for election as President.—(1) No person shall be
eligible for election as President unless he—
(a) is a citizen of India,
(b) has completed the age of thirty-five years, and
(c) is qualified for election as a member of the House of the People.
(2) A person shall not be eligible for election as President if he holds
any office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of any
State or under any local or other authority subject to the control of any of the
said Governments.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this article, a person shall not be
deemed to hold any office of profit by reason only that he is the President or
Vice-President of the Union or the Governor 1*** of any State or is a Minister
either for the Union or for any State.
59. Conditions of President's office.—(1) The President shall not be a
member of either House of Parliament or of a House of the Legislature of any
State, and if a member of either House of Parliament or of a House of the
Legislature of any State be elected President, he shall be deemed to have
vacated his seat in that House on the date on which he enters upon his office as
President.
(2) The President shall not hold any other office of profit.
(3) The President shall be entitled without payment of rent to the use of
his official residences and shall be also entitled to such emoluments,
allowances and privileges as may be determined by Parliament by law and,
until provision in that behalf is so made, such emoluments, allowances and
privileges as are specified in the Second Schedule.
(4) The emoluments and allowances of the President shall not be
diminished during his term of office.
60. Oath or affirmation by the President.—Every President and every
person acting as President or discharging the functions of the President shall,
before entering upon his office, make and subscribe in the presence of the Chief
Justice of India or, in his absence, the senior-most Judge of the Supreme Court
available, an oath or affirmation in the following form, that is to say—
1. The words "or Rajpramukh or Uparajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).