THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
74
(4) A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a
member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period
cease to be a Minister.
(5) The salaries and allowances of Ministers shall be such as the Legislature
of the State may from time to time by law determine and, until the Legislature of the
State so determines, shall be as specified in the Second Schedule.
The Advocate-General for the State
165. Advocate-General for the State.—(1) The Governor of each State
shall appoint a person who is qualified to be appointed a Judge of a High Court
to be Advocate-General for the State.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Advocate-General to give advice to the
Government of the State upon such legal matters, and to perform such other
duties of a legal character, as may from time to time be referred or assigned to
him by the Governor, and to discharge the functions conferred on him by or
under this Constitution or any other law for the time being in force.
(3) The Advocate-General shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Governor, and shall receive such remuneration as the Governor may determine.
Conduct of Government Business
166. Conduct of Business of the Government of a State.—(1) All
executive action of the Government of a State shall be expressed to be taken in
the name of the Governor.
(2) Orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the
Governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to
be made by the Governor, and the validity of an order or instrument which is so
authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order
or instrument made or executed by the Governor.
(3) The Governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of
the business of the Government of the State, and for the allocation among
Ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which
the Governor is by or under this Constitution required to act in his discretion.