THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIV.—Services under the Union and the States)
174
necessary in order to secure the services of a person having special
qualifications, provide for the payment to him of compensation, if before the
expiration of an agreed period that post is abolished or he is, for reasons not
connected with any misconduct on his part, required to vacate that post.
311. Dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in
civil capacities under the Union or a State.—(1) No person who is a member
of a civil service of the Union or an all-India service or a civil service of a
State or holds a civil post under the Union or a State shall be dismissed or
removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed.
1[(2) No such person as aforesaid shall be dismissed or removed or
reduced in rank except after an inquiry in which he has been informed of the
charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in
respect of those charges 2***:
3[Provided that where it is proposed after such inquiry, to impose upon
him any such penalty, such penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
evidence adduced during such inquiry and it shall not be necessary to give such
person any opportunity of making representation on the penalty proposed:
Provided further that this clause shall not apply—]
(a) where a person is dismissed or removed or reduced in rank on
the ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal
charge; or
(b) where the authority empowered to dismiss or remove a person
or to reduce him in rank is satisfied that for some reason, to be recorded
by that authority in writing, it is not reasonably practicable to hold such
inquiry; or
(c) where the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is
satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State it is not expedient
to hold such inquiry.
(3) If, in respect of any such person as aforesaid, a question arises
whether it is reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry as is referred to in
clause (2), the decision thereon of the authority empowered to dismiss or
remove such person or to reduce him in rank shall be final.]
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963, s. 10, for cls. (2) and (3)
(w.e.f. 5-10-1963).
2. Certain words omitted by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 44
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 44, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).