173
PART XIV
SERVICES UNDER THE UNION AND THE STATES
CHAPTER I.— SERVICES
308. Interpretation.—In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,
the expression “State” 1[does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir].
309. Recruitment and conditions of service of persons serving the
Union or a State.—Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Acts of the
appropriate Legislature may regulate the recruitment, and conditions of service
of persons appointed, to public services and posts in connection with the affairs
of the Union or of any State:
Provided that it shall be competent for the President or such person as he
may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the
Union, and for the Governor 2*** of a State or such person as he may direct in
the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State, to
make rules regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons
appointed, to such services and posts until provision in that behalf is made by
or under an Act of the appropriate Legislature under this article, and any rules
so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any such Act.
310. Tenure of office of persons serving the Union or a State.—(1)
Except as expressly provided by this Constitution, every person who is a
member of a defence service or of a civil service of the Union or of an
all-India service or holds any post connected with defence or any civil post
under the Union holds office during the pleasure of the President, and every
person who is a member of a civil service of a State or holds any civil post
under a State holds office during the pleasure of the Governor 3*** of the
State.
(2) Notwithstanding that a person holding a civil post under the Union or
a State holds office during the pleasure of the President or, as the case may be,
of the Governor 2*** of the State, any contract under which a person, not being
a member of a defence service or of an all-India service or of a civil service of
the Union or a State, is appointed under this Constitution to hold such a post
may, if the President or the Governor 42***, as the case may be, deems it
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch., for "means
a State specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by s.29 and Sch., ibid (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. The words "or, as the case may be, the Rajpramukh" omitted by s.29 and Sch., ibid. .
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).