THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Seventh Schedule)
323
21. Commercial and industrial monopolies, combines and trusts.
22. Trade unions; industrial and labour disputes.
23. Social security and social insurance; employment and unemployment.
24. Welfare of labour including conditions of work, provident funds,
employers' liability, workmen's compensation, invalidity and old age pensions
and maternity benefits.
1[25. Education, including technical education, medical education and
universities, subject to the provisions of entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I;
vocational and technical training of labour.]
26. Legal, medical and other professions.
27. Relief and rehabilitation of persons displaced from their original place
of residence by reason of the setting up of the Dominions of India and Pakistan.
28. Charities and charitable institutions, charitable
and
religious
endowments and religious institutions.
29. Prevention of the extension from one State to another of infectious or
contagious diseases or pests affecting men, animals or plants.
30. Vital statistics including registration of births and deaths.
31. Ports other than those declared by or under law made by Parliament or
existing law to be major ports.
32. Shipping and navigation on inland waterways as regards mechanically
propelled vessels, and the rule of the road on such waterways, and the carriage
of passengers and goods on inland waterways subject to the provisions of List I
with respect to national waterways.
2[33. Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution
of,—
(a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry
by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the
public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products;
(b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils;
(c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates;
(d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seed; and
(e) raw jute.]
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 57 (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1954, s. 2 for entry 33
(w.e.f. 22-2-1955).