THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
194
1[Provided that nothing in this article shall prevent in making of any
provision in favour of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes for relaxation in qualifying marks in any examination or lowering the
standards of evaluation, for reservation in matters or promotion to any class or
classes of services or posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.]
336. Special provision for Anglo-Indian community in certain
services.—(1) During the first two years after the commencement of this
Constitution, appointments of members of the Anglo-Indian community to posts
in the railway, customs, postal and telegraph services of the Union shall be made
on the same basis as immediately before the fifteenth day of August, 1947.
During every succeeding period of two years, the number of posts
reserved for the members of the said community in the said services shall, as
nearly as possible, be less by ten per cent. than the numbers so reserved during
the immediately preceding period of two years:
Provided that at the end of ten years from the commencement of this
Constitution all such reservations shall cease.
(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall bar the appointment of members of the
Anglo-Indian community to posts other than, or in addition to, those reserved
for the community under that clause if such members are found qualified for
appointment on merit as compared with the members of other communities.
337. Special provision with respect to educational grants for the
benefit of Anglo-Indian community.—During the first three financial years
after the commencement of this Constitution, the same grants, if any, shall be
made by the Union and by each State 2*** for the benefit of the Anglo-Indian
community in respect of education as were made in the financial year ending
on the thirty-first day of March, 1948.
During every succeeding period of three years the grants may be less by
ten per cent. than those for the immediately preceding period of three years:
Provided that at the end of ten years from the commencement of this
Constitution such grants, to the extent to which they are a special concession to
the Anglo-Indian community, shall cease:
Provided further that no educational institution shall be entitled to
receive any grant under this article unless at least forty per cent. of the annual
admissions therein are made available to members of communities other than
the Anglo-Indian community.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Eighty-second Amendment) Act, 2000, s. 2 (w.e.f. 8-9-2000).
2. The words and letters "specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" omitted by
the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).