26
PART V
THE UNION
CHAPTER I.—THE EXECUTIVE
The President and Vice-President
52. The President of India.—There shall be a President of India.
53. Executive power of the Union.—(1) The executive power of the Union
shall be vested in the President and shall be exercised by him either directly or
through officers subordinate to him in accordance with this Constitution.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the
supreme command of the Defence Forces of the Union shall be vested in the
President and the exercise thereof shall be regulated by law.
(3) Nothing in this article shall—
(a) be deemed to transfer to the President any functions conferred
by any existing law on the Government of any State or other authority; or
(b) prevent Parliament from conferring by law functions on
authorities other than the President.
54. Election of President.—The President shall be elected by the
members of an electoral college consisting of—
(a) the elected members of both Houses of Parliament; and
(b) the elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of the States.
1[Explanation.—In this article and in article 55, “State” includes the
National Capital Territory of Delhi and the Union territory of *Puducherry.]
55. Manner of election of President.—(1) As far as practicable, there
shall be uniformity in the scale of representation of the different States at the
election of the President.
(2) For the purpose of securing such uniformity among the States inter se
as well as parity between the States as a whole and the Union, the number of
votes which each elected member of Parliament and of the Legislative
Assembly of each State is entitled to cast at such election shall be determined in
the following manner:—
(a) every elected member of the Legislative Assembly of a State shall
have as many votes as there are multiples of one thousand in the quotient
obtained by dividing the population of the State by the total number of
the elected members of the Assembly;
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Seventieth Amendment) Act, 1992, s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-6-1995).
* Now Puducherry vide the Pondicherry (Alteration of Name) Act, 2006 (44 of 2006),
s. 3 (w.e.f. 1-10-2006).