THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part III.—Fundamental Rights)
19
Right to Constitutional Remedies
32. Remedies for enforcement of rights conferred by this Part.—(1)
The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the
enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed.
(2) The Supreme Court shall have power to issue directions or orders or
writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition,
quo warranto and certiorari,
whichever may be appropriate, for the
enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this Part.
(3) Without prejudice to the powers conferred on the Supreme Court by
clauses (1) and (2), Parliament may by law empower any other court to exercise
within the local limits of its jurisdiction all or any of the powers exercisable by
the Supreme Court under clause (2).
(4) The right guaranteed by this article shall not be suspended except as
otherwise provided for by this Constitution.
132A. [Constitutional validity of State laws not to be considered in
proceedings under article 32.].—Omitted by the Constitution (Forty-third
Amendment) Act, 1977, s. 3 (w.e.f. 13-4-1978).
2[33. Power of Parliament to modify the rights conferred by this Part
in their application to Forces, etc.—Parliament may, by law, determine to what
extent any of the rights conferred by this Part shall, in their application to,—
(a) the members of the Armed Forces; or
(b) the members of the Forces charged with the maintenance of
public order; or
(c) persons employed in any bureau or other organisation established
by the State for purposes of intelligence or counter intelligence; or
(d) person employed in, or in connection with, the telecommunication
systems set up for the purposes of any Force, bureau or organisation
referred to in clauses (a) to (c),
be restricted or abrogated so as to ensure the proper discharge of their duties
and the maintenance of discipline among them.]
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 6 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Fiftieth Amendment) Act, 1984, s. 2, for art. 33
(w.e.f. 11-9-1984).