THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XII.—Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits)
169
Provided that any property which at the date when it would have so
accrued to His Majesty or to the Ruler of an Indian State was in the possession
or under the control of the Government of India or the Government of a State
shall, according as the purposes for which it was then used or held were
purposes of the Union or of a State, vest in the Union or in that State.
Explanation.—In this article, the expressions “Ruler” and “Indian State”
have the same meanings as in article 363.
1[297. Things of value within territorial waters or continental shelf
and resources of the exclusive economic zone to vest in the Union.—(1) All
lands, minerals and other things of value underlying the ocean within the
territorial waters, or the continental shelf, or the exclusive economic zone, of
India shall vest in the Union and be held for the purposes of the Union.
(2) All other resources of the exclusive economic zone of India shall also
vest in the Union and be held for the purposes of the Union.
(3) The limits of the territorial waters, the continental shelf, the exclusive
economic zone, and other maritime zones, of India shall be such as may be
specified, from time to time, by or under any law made by Parliament.]
2[298. Power to carry on trade, etc.—The executive power of the
Union and of each State shall extend to the carrying on of any trade or business
and to the acquisition, holding and disposal of property and the making of
contracts for any purpose:
Provided that—
(a) the said executive power of the Union shall, in so far as such
trade or business or such purpose is not one with respect to which
Parliament may make laws, be subject in each State to legislation by the
State; and
(b) the said executive power of each State shall, in so far as such
trade or business or such purpose is not one with respect to which the
State Legislature may make laws, be subject to legislation by
Parliament.]
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Fortieth Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 2 (w.e.f. 27-5-1976).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 20 (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).