119
1[PART IX
THE PANCHAYATS
243. Definitions.—In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “district” means a district in a State;
(b) “Gram Sabha” means a body consisting of persons registered in
the electoral rolls relating to a village comprised within the area of
Panchayat at the village level;
(c) “intermediate level” means a level between the village and
district levels specified by the Governor of a State by public notification
to be the intermediate level for the purposes of this Part;
(d) “Panchayat” means an institution (by whatever name called) of
self-government constituted under article 243B, for the rural areas;
(e) “Panchayat area” means the territorial area of a Panchayat;
(f) “Population” means the population as ascertained at the last
preceding census of which the relevant figures have been published;
(g) “village” means a village specified by the Governor by public
notification to be a village for the purposes of this Part and includes a
group of villages so specified.
243A. Gram Sabha.—A Gram Sabha may exercise such powers and
perform such functions at the village level as the Legislature of a State may, by
law, provide.
243B. Constitution of Panchayats.—(1) There shall be constituted in
every State, Panchayats at the village, intermediate and district levels in
accordance with the provisions of this Part.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (1), Panchayats at the intermediate
level may not be constituted in a State having a population not exceeding
twenty lakhs.
243C. Composition of Panchayats.—(1) Subject to the provisions of
this Part, the Legislature of a State may, by law, make provisions with respect
to the composition of Panchayats:
1. Original Part IX relating to "The territories in Part D of the First Schedule and other
territories not specified in that Schedule" was omitted by the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956) and subsequently ins. by the
Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992, s. 2 (w.e.f. 24-4-1993).