THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
63
Provided that an appeal under sub-clause (c) shall lie subject to such
provisions as may be made in that behalf under clause (1) of article 145 and to
such conditions as the High Court may establish or require.
(2) Parliament may by law confer on the Supreme Court any further
powers to entertain and hear appeals from any judgment, final order or sentence
in a criminal proceeding of a High Court in the territory of India subject to such
conditions and limitations as may be specified in such law.
1[134A. Certificate for appeal to the Supreme Court.—Every High
Court, passing or making a judgment, decree, final order, or sentence, referred to
in clause (1) of article 132 or clause (1) of article 133, or clause (1) of article
134,—
(a) may, if it deems fit so to do, on its own motion; and
(b) shall, if an oral application is made, by or on behalf of the party
aggrieved, immediately after the passing or making of such judgment,
decree, final order or sentence,
determine, as soon as may be after such passing or making, the question
whether a certificate of the nature referred to in clause (1) of article 132, or
clause (1) of article 133 or, as the case may be, sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of
article 134, may be given in respect of that case.]
135. Jurisdiction and powers of the Federal Court under existing
law to be exercisable by the Supreme Court.—Until Parliament by law
otherwise provides, the Supreme Court shall also have jurisdiction and powers
with respect to any matter to which the provisions of article 133 or article 134
do not apply if jurisdiction and powers in relation to that matter were
exercisable by the Federal Court immediately before the commencement of this
Constitution under any existing law.
136. Special leave to appeal by the Supreme Court.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter, the Supreme Court may, in its
discretion, grant special leave to appeal from any judgment, decree,
determination, sentence or order in any cause or matter passed or made by any
court or tribunal in the territory of India.
(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall apply to any judgment, determination,
sentence or order passed or made by any court or tribunal constituted by or
under any law relating to the Armed Forces.
137. Review of judgments or orders by the Supreme Court.—Subject
to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under
article 145, the Supreme Court shall have power to review any judgment
pronounced or order made by it.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 20 (w.e.f. 1-8-1979).