THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VIII.—The Union Territories)
113
1[239AA. Special provisions with respect to Delhi.—(1) As from the
date of commencement of the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act,
1991, the Union territory of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory
of Delhi (hereafter in this Part referred to as the National Capital Territory) and
the administrator thereof appointed under article 239 shall be designated as the
Lieutenant Governor.
(2)(a) There shall be a Legislative Assembly for the National Capital
Territory and the seats in such Assembly shall be filled by members chosen by
direct election from territorial constituencies in the National Capital Territory.
(b) The total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly, the number of
seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, the division of the National Capital
Territory into territorial constituencies (including the basis for such division)
and all other matters relating to the functioning of the Legislative Assembly
shall be regulated by law made by Parliament.
2[(ba) Seats shall be reserved for women in the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi.
(bb) As nearly as may be, one-third of the seats reserved for the
Scheduled Castes in the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory
of Delhi shall be reserved for women.
(bc) As nearly as may be, one-third of the total number of seats to be
filled by direct election in the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital
Territory of Delhi (including the numbers of seats reserved for women
belonging to the Scheduled Castes) shall be reserved for women in such
manner as Parliament may by law determine.]
(c) The provisions of articles 324 to 327 and 329 shall apply in relation
to the National Capital Territory, the Legislative Assembly of the National
Capital Territory and the members thereof as they apply, in relation to a State,
the Legislative Assembly of a State and the members thereof respectively; and
any reference in articles 326 and 329 to “appropriate Legislature” shall be
deemed to be a reference to Parliament.
1. Arts 239AA and 239 AB ins. by the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991,
s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-2-1992).
2. ins. by the Constitution (One-hundred and Sixth Amendment) Act, 2023, s. 2 (date yet
to be notified).