THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
55
(2) A Bill or amendment shall not be deemed to make provision for any
of the matters aforesaid by reason only that it provides for the imposition of
fines or other pecuniary penalties, or for the demand or payment of fees for
licences or fees for services rendered, or by reason that it provides for the
imposition, abolition, remission, alteration or regulation of any tax by any local
authority or body for local purposes.
(3) A Bill which, if enacted and brought into operation, would involve
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India shall not be passed by either
House of Parliament unless the President has recommended to that House the
consideration of the Bill.
Procedure Generally
118. Rules of procedure.—(1) Each House of Parliament may make
rules for regulating, subject to the provisions of this Constitution, its procedure
and the conduct of its business.
(2) Until rules are made under clause (1), the rules of procedure and
standing orders in force immediately before the commencement of this
Constitution with respect to the Legislature of the Dominion of India shall have
effect in relation to Parliament subject to such modifications and adaptations as
may be made therein by the Chairman of the Council of States or the Speaker
of the House of the People, as the case may be.
(3) The President, after consultation with the Chairman of the Council of
States and the Speaker of the House of the People, may make rules as to the
procedure with respect to joint sittings of, and communications between, the
two Houses.
(4) At a joint sitting of the two Houses the Speaker of the House of the
People, or in his absence such person as may be determined by rules of
procedure made under clause (3), shall preside.
119. Regulation by law of procedure in Parliament in relation to
financial business.— Parliament may, for the purpose of the timely completion
of financial business, regulate by law the procedure of, and the conduct of
business in, each House of Parliament in relation to any financial matter or to
any Bill for the appropriation of moneys out of the Consolidated Fund of India,
and, if and so far as any provision of any law so made is inconsistent with any
rule made by a House of Parliament under clause (1) of article 118 or with any
rule or standing order having effect in relation to Parliament under clause (2) of
that article, such provision shall prevail.
The brackets and words "(including the quorum to constitute a meeting of the House"
ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 22 (date not notified).
This amendment was omitted by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act,
1978, s. 45 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).