THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
88
by the Legislature by law, and, until so defined, 1[shall be those of that House
and of its members and committees immediately before the coming into force
of section 26 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978].
(4) The provisions of clauses (1), (2) and (3) shall apply in relation to
persons who by virtue of this Constitution have the right to speak in, and
otherwise to take part in the proceedings of, a House of the Legislature of a State
or any committee thereof as they apply in relation to members of that Legislature.
195. Salaries and allowances of members.—Members of the
Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council of a State shall be entitled to
receive such salaries and allowances as may from time to time be determined,
by the Legislature of the State by law and, until provision in that respect is so
made, salaries and allowances at such rates and upon such conditions as were
immediately before the commencement of this Constitution applicable in the
case of members of the Legislative Assembly of the corresponding Province.
Legislative Procedure
196. Provisions as to introduction and passing of Bills.—(1) Subject
to the provisions of articles 198 and 207 with respect to Money Bills and other
financial Bills, a Bill may originate in either House of the Legislature of a State
which has a Legislative Council.
(2) Subject to the provisions of articles 197 and 198, a Bill shall not be
deemed to have been passed by the Houses of the Legislature of a State having
a Legislative Council unless it has been agreed to by both Houses, either
without amendment or with such amendments only as are agreed to by both
Houses.
(3) A Bill pending in the Legislature of a State shall not lapse by reason
of the prorogation of the House or Houses thereof.
(4) A Bill pending in the Legislative Council of a State which has not
been passed by the Legislative Assembly shall not lapse on a dissolution of the
Assembly.
(5) A Bill which is pending in the Legislative Assembly of a State, or
which having been passed by the Legislative Assembly is pending in the
Legislative Council, shall lapse on a dissolution of the Assembly.
197. Restriction on powers of Legislative Council as to Bills other
than Money Bills.—(1) If after a Bill has been passed by the Legislative
Assembly of a State having a Legislative Council and transmitted to the
Legislative Council—
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 26, for certain
words (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).