THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIV.—Services under the Union and the States)
175
312. All-India services.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in 1[Chapter VI
of Part VI or Part XI], if the Council of States has declared by resolution
supported by not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting that it
is necessary or expedient in the national interest so to do, Parliament may by
law provide for the creation of one or more all India services 2[(including an
all-India judicial service)] common to the Union and the States, and, subject to
the other provisions of this Chapter, regulate the recruitment, and the
conditions of service of persons appointed, to any such service.
(2) The services known at the commencement of this Constitution as the
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service shall be deemed to
be services created by Parliament under this article.
2[(3) The all-India judicial service referred to in clause (1) shall not
include any post inferior to that of a district judge as defined in article 236.
(4) The law providing for the creation of the all-India judicial service
aforesaid may contain such provisions for the amendment of Chapter VI of
Part VI as may be necessary for giving effect to the provisions of that law and
no such law shall be deemed to be an amendment of this Constitution for the
purposes of article 368.]
3[312A. Power of Parliament to vary or revoke conditions of service
of officers of certain services.—(1) Parliament may by law—
(a) vary or revoke, whether prospectively or retrospectively, the
conditions of services as respects remuneration, leave and pension and
the rights as respects disciplinary matters of persons who, having been
appointed by the Secretary of State or Secretary of State in Council to a
civil service of the Crown in India before the commencement of this
Constitution, continue on and after the commencement of the
Constitution (Twenty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1972, to serve under the
Government of India or of a State in any service or post;
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 45, for "Part XI"
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 45, ibid. (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
3. Ins. by the Constitution (Twenty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1972, s. 2 (w.e.f. 29-8-1972).