THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part VI.—The States)
84
(3) Until provision is made by the Legislature of the State under clause (2),
the Governor may, after consultation with the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
or the Chairman of the Legislative Council, as the case may be, make rules
regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to the
secretarial staff of the Assembly or the Council, and any rules so made shall have
effect subject to the provisions of any law made under the said clause.
Conduct of Business
188. Oath or affirmation by members.—Every member of the
Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council of a State shall, before taking
his seat, make and subscribe before the Governor, or some person appointed in
that behalf by him, an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the
purpose in the Third Schedule.
189. Voting in Houses, power of Houses to act notwithstanding
vacancies and quorum.—(1) Save as otherwise provided in this Constitution,
all questions at any sitting of a House of the Legislature of a State shall be
determined by a majority of votes of the members present and voting, other
than the Speaker or Chairman, or person acting as such.
The Speaker or Chairman, or person acting as such, shall not vote in the
first instance, but shall have and exercise a casting vote in the case of an
equality of votes.
(2) A House of the Legislature of a State shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership thereof, and any proceedings
in the Legislature of a State shall be valid notwithstanding that it is discovered
subsequently that some person who was not entitled so to do sat or voted or
otherwise took part in the proceedings.
1[(3) Until the Legislature of the State by law otherwise provides, the
quorum to constitute a meeting of a House of the Legislature of a State shall be
ten members or one-tenth of the total number of members of the House,
whichever is greater.
(4) If at any time during a meeting of the Legislative Assembly or the
Legislative Council of a State there is no quorum, it shall be the duty of the
Speaker or Chairman, or person acting as such, either to adjourn the House or
to suspend the meeting until there is a quorum.]
1. Omitted by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 31 (date not
notified). This amendment was omitted by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1978, s. 45 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).