THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
32
President, or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or
affirmation in the following form, that is to say—
"I, A.B., do swear in the name of God that I will bear true faith and
solemnly affirm
allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established and that I will faithfully
discharge the duty upon which I am about to enter.".
70. Discharge of President's functions in other contingencies.—
Parliament may make such provision as it thinks fit for the discharge of the
functions of the President in any contingency not provided for in this Chapter.
1[71. Matters relating to, or connected with, the election of a
President or Vice-President.—(1) All doubts and disputes arising out of or in
connection with the election of a President or Vice-President shall be inquired
into and decided by the Supreme Court whose decision shall be final.
(2) If the election of a person as President or Vice-President is declared
void by the Supreme Court, acts done by him in the exercise and performance
of the powers and duties of the office of President or Vice-President, as the
case may be, on or before the date of the decision of the Supreme Court shall
not be invalidated by reason of that declaration.
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may by law
regulate any matter relating to or connected with the election of a President or
Vice-President.
(4) The election of a person as President or Vice-President shall not be
called in question on the ground of the existence of any vacancy for whatever
reason among the members of the electoral college electing him.]
72. Power of President to grant pardons, etc., and to suspend, remit
or commute sentences in certain cases.—(1) The President shall have the
power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment or to
suspend, remit or commute the sentence of any person convicted of any
offence—
(a) in all cases where the punishment or sentence is by a Court
Martial;
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Thirty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1975, s. 2 (w.e.f 10-8-1975) and
further subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 10.
(w.e.f. 20-6-1979).