THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XI.—Relations between the Union and the States)
150
1[257A. [Assistance to States by deployment of armed forces or other
forces of the Union.].—Omitted
by the Constitution (Forty-fourth
Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 33 (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).]
258. Power of the Union to confer powers, etc., on States in certain
cases.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the President may,
with the consent of the Government of a State, entrust either conditionally or
unconditionally to that Government or to its officers functions in relation to any
matter to which the executive power of the Union extends.
(2) A law made by Parliament which applies in any State may,
notwithstanding that it relates to a matter with respect to which the Legislature
of the State has no power to make laws, confer powers and impose duties, or
authorise the conferring of powers and the imposition of duties, upon the State
or officers and authorities thereof.
(3) Where by virtue of this article powers and duties have been conferred
or imposed upon a State or officers or authorities thereof, there shall be paid by
the Government of India to the State such sum as may be agreed, or, in default
of agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator appointed by the Chief
Justice of India, in respect of any extra costs of administration incurred by the
State in connection with the exercise of those powers and duties.
2[258A. Power of the States to entrust functions to the Union.—
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the Governor of a State may,
with the consent of the Government of India, entrust either conditionally or
unconditionally to that Government or to its officers functions in relation to any
matter to which the executive power of the State extends.]
[259. Armed Forces in States in Part B of the First Schedule.].—
Omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch.
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
260. Jurisdiction of the Union in relation to territories outside
India.—The Government of India may by agreement with the Government of
any territory not being part of the territory of India undertake any executive,
legislative or judicial functions vested in the Government of such territory, but
every such agreement shall be subject to, and governed by, any law relating to
the exercise of foreign jurisdiction for the time being in force.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 43 (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
2. Ins. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 18 (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).