THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVII—LANGUAGE)
206
Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to any judgment, decree
or order passed or made by such High Court.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in sub-clause (b) of clause (1), where the
Legislature of a State has prescribed any language other than the English
language for use in Bills introduced in, or Acts passed by, the Legislature of the
State or in Ordinances promulgated by the Governor 1*** of the State or in any
order, rule, regulation or bye-law referred to in paragraph (iii) of that sub-clause,
a translation of the same in the English language published under the authority of
the Governor 1*** of the State in the Official Gazette of that State shall be
deemed to be the authoritative text thereof in the English language under this
article.
349. Special procedure for enactment of certain laws relating to
language.—During the period of fifteen years from the commencement of this
Constitution, no Bill or amendment making provision for the language to be
used for any of the purposes mentioned in clause (1) of article 348 shall be
introduced or moved in either House of Parliament without the previous
sanction of the President, and the President shall not give his sanction to the
introduction of any such Bill or the moving of any such amendment except
after he has taken into consideration the recommendations of the Commission
constituted under clause (1) of article 344 and the report of the Committee
constituted under clause (4) of that article.
CHAPTER IV.—SPECIAL DIRECTIVES
350. Language to be used in representations for redress of
grievances.—Every person shall be entitled to submit a representation for the
redress of any grievance to any officer or authority of the Union or a State in
any of the languages used in the Union or in the State, as the case may be.
2[350A. Facilities for instruction in mother-tongue at primary
stage.—It shall be the endeavour of every State and of every local authority
within the State to provide adequate facilities for instruction in the
mother-tongue at the primary stage of education to children belonging to
linguistic minority groups; and the President may issue such directions to any
State as he considers necessary or proper for securing the provision of such
facilities.
1. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act,
1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. Arts. 350A and 350B ins. by s.21., ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).