THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
241
shall be deemed to be illegal or void or ever to have become illegal or void
merely on the ground that the appointment, posting, promotion or transfer of
such person was not made in accordance with any law, then in force, providing
for any requirement as to residence within the State of Hyderabad or, as the
case may be, within any part of the State of Andhra Pradesh, in respect of such
appointment, posting, promotion or transfer.
(10) The provisions of this article and of any order made by the
President thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything in any other
provision of this Constitution or in any other law for the time being in force.
371E. Establishment of Central University in Andhra Pradesh.—
Parliament may by law provide for the establishment of a University in the
State of Andhra Pradesh.]
1[371F. Special provisions with respect to the State of Sikkim.—
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,—
(a) the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim shall consist of
not less than thirty members;
(b) as from the date of commencement of the Constitution
(Thirty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1975 (hereafter in this article referred to
as the appointed day)—
(i) the Assembly for Sikkim formed as a result of the elections
held in Sikkim in April, 1974 with thirty-two members elected in the
said elections (hereinafter referred to as the sitting members) shall be
deemed to be the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim duly
constituted under this Constitution;
(ii) the sitting members shall be deemed to be the members of
the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim duly elected under
this Constitution; and
(iii) the said Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim shall
exercise the powers and perform the functions of the Legislative
Assembly of a State under this Constitution;
1. Art 371F ins. by the Constitution (Thirty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1975, s. 3
(w.e.f. 26-4-1975).