145
PART XI
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNION AND THE STATES
CHAPTER I.—LEGISLATIVE RELATIONS
Distribution of Legislative Powers
245. Extent of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of
States.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may
make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India, and the
Legislature of a State may make laws for the whole or any part of the State.
(2) No law made by Parliament shall be deemed to be invalid on the
ground that it would have extra-territorial operation.
246. Subject-matter of laws made by Parliament and by the
Legislatures of States.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3),
Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters
enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as
the “Union List”).
(2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to
clause (1), the Legislature of any State 1*** also, have power to make laws
with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh
Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Concurrent List”).
(3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State 1*** has
exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to
any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this
Constitution referred to as the “State List”).
(4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for
any part of the territory of India not included 2[in a State] notwithstanding that
such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.
3[246A. Special provision with respect to goods and services tax.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in articles 246 and 254, Parliament, and,
subject to clause (2), the Legislature of every State, have power to make laws
with respect to goods and services tax imposed by the Union or by such State.
1. The words and letters "specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" omitted by
the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. Subs. by s. 29 and Sch., ibid., for "in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule"
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
3. Ins. by the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016, s. 2
(w.e.f. 16-9-2016).