THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
195
338. 1[National Commission for Scheduled Castes].—2[3[(1) There
shall be a Commission for the Scheduled Castes to be known as the National
Commission for the Scheduled Castes.
(2) Subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by
Parliament, the Commission shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
and three other Members and the conditions of service and tenure of office of
the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Members so appointed shall be
such as the President may by rule determine.]
(3) The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Members of the
Commission shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal.
(4) The Commission shall have the power to regulate its own procedure.
(5) It shall be the duty of the Commission—
(a) to investigate and monitor all matters relating to the safeguards
provided for the Scheduled Castes 4*** under this Constitution or under
any other law for the time being in force or under any order of the
Government and to evaluate the working of such safeguards;
(b) to inquire into specific complaints with respect to the
deprivation of rights and safeguards of the Scheduled Castes 4***;
(c) to participate and advise on the planning process of
socio-economic development of the Scheduled Castes
1*** and to
evaluate the progress of their development under the Union and any
State;
(d) to present to the President, annually and at such other times as the
Commission may deem fit, reports upon the working of those safeguards;
(e) to make in such reports recommendations as to the measures that
should be taken by the Union or any State for the effective implementation of
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Eighty-ninth Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 2, for the marginal
heading (w.e.f. 19-2-2004).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Sixty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1990, s. 2, for cls. (1) and (2)
(w.e.f. 12-3-1992).
3. Subs. by the Constitution (Eighty-ninth Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 2, for cls. (1) and
(2) (w.e.f. 19-2-2004).
4. The words "and Scheduled Tribes" omitted by the Constitution (Eighty-ninth
Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 2 (w.e.f. 19-2-2004).