THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Second Schedule)
268
11. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) the expression “Chief Justice” includes an acting Chief Justice,
and a “Judge” includes an ad hoc Judge;
(b) “actual service” includes—
(i) time spent by a Judge on duty as a Judge or in the performance
of such other functions as he may at the request of the President
undertake to discharge;
(ii) vacations, excluding any time during which the Judge is absent
on leave; and
(iii) joining time on transfer from a High Court to the Supreme
Court or from one High Court to another.
PART E
PROVISIONS AS TO THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR-GENERAL OF INDIA
12. (1) There shall be paid to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
India a salary at the rate of *four thousand rupees per mensem.
(2) The person who was holding office immediately before the
commencement of this Constitution as Auditor-General of India and has
become on such commencement the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
under article 377 shall in addition to the salary specified in sub-paragraph (1) of
this paragraph be entitled to receive as special pay an amount equivalent to the
difference between the salary so specified and the salary which he was drawing
as Auditor-General of India immediately before such commencement.
(3) The rights in respect of leave of absence and pension and the other
conditions of service of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India shall be
governed or shall continue to be governed, as the case may be, by the provisions
which were applicable to the Auditor-General of India immediately before the
commencement of this Constitution and all references in those provisions to the
Governor-General shall be construed as references to the President.
* The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India shall be paid a salary equal to
the salary of the Judges of the Supreme Court vide s. 3 of the Comptroller and
Auditor-General (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act, 1971 (56 of
1971) . The salary of Judges of the Supreme Court has been raised to two
lakh fifty thousand rupees per mensem by the High Court and Supreme Court
Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Act, 2018 (10 of 2018), s. 6
(w.e.f. 1-1-2016).