THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
41
Officers of Parliament
89. The Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Council of States.—(1)
The Vice- President of India shall be ex officio Chairman of the Council of States.
(2) The Council of States shall, as soon as may be, choose a member of
the Council to be Deputy Chairman thereof and, so often as the office of
Deputy Chairman becomes vacant, the Council shall choose another member to
be Deputy Chairman thereof.
90. Vacation and resignation of, and removal from, the office of
Deputy Chairman.—A member holding office as Deputy Chairman of the
Council of States—
(a) shall vacate his office if he ceases to be a member of the Council;
(b) may at any time, by writing under his hand addressed to the
Chairman, resign his office; and
(c) may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council
passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council:
Provided that no resolution for the purpose of clause (c) shall be moved
unless at least fourteen days’ notice has been given of the intention to move the
resolution.
91. Power of the Deputy Chairman or other person to perform the
duties of the office of, or to act as, Chairman.—(1) While the office of
Chairman is vacant, or during any period when the Vice-President is acting as,
or discharging the functions of, President, the duties of the office shall be
performed by the Deputy Chairman, or, if the office of Deputy Chairman is
also vacant, by such member of the Council of States as the President may
appoint for the purpose.
(2) During the absence of the Chairman from any sitting of the Council of
States the Deputy Chairman, or, if he is also absent, such person as may be
determined by the rules of procedure of the Council, or, if no such person is present,
such other person as may be determined by the Council, shall act as Chairman.
92. The Chairman or the Deputy Chairman not to preside while a
resolution for his removal from office is under consideration.—(1) At any
sitting of the Council of States, while any resolution for the removal of the
Vice-President from his office is under consideration, the Chairman, or while
any resolution for the removal of the Deputy Chairman from his office is under
consideration, the Deputy Chairman, shall not, though he is present, preside,
and the provisions of clause (2) of article 91 shall apply in relation to every
such sitting as they apply in relation to a sitting from which the Chairman, or,
as the case may be, the Deputy Chairman, is absent.