THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part IX.—The Panchayats)
126
1[(3A) Nothing in article 243D, relating to reservation of seats for the
Scheduled Castes, shall apply to the State of Arunachal Pradesh.]
(4) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,—
(a) the Legislature of a State referred to in sub-clause (a) of
clause (2) may, by law, extend this Part to that State, except the areas, if
any, referred to in clause (1), if the Legislative Assembly of that State
passes a resolution to that effect by a majority of the total membership of
that House and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
of that House present and voting;
(b) Parliament may, by law, extend the provisions of this Part to the
Scheduled Areas and the tribal areas referred to in clause (1) subject to
such exceptions and modifications as may be specified in such law, and
no such law shall be deemed to be an amendment of this Constitution for
the purposes of article 368.
243N.
Continuance
of
existing
laws
and
Panchayats.—
Notwithstanding anything in this Part, any provision of any law relating to
Panchayats in force in a State immediately before the commencement of the
Constitution (Seventy-third Amendment) Act, 1992, which is inconsistent with
the provisions of this Part, shall continue to be in force until amended or
repealed by a competent Legislature or other competent authority or until the
expiration of one year from such commencement, whichever is earlier:
Provided that all the Panchayats existing immediately before such
commencement shall continue till the expiration of their duration, unless sooner
dissolved by a resolution passed to that effect by the Legislative Assembly of
that State or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, by each House
of the Legislature of that State.
243O. Bar to interference by courts in electoral matters.—
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution,—
(a) the validity of any law relating to the delimitation of
constituencies or the allotment of seats to such constituencies, made or
purporting to be made under article 243K, shall not be called in question
in any court;
(b) no election to any Panchayat shall be called in question except by
an election petition presented to such authority and in such manner as is
provided for by or under any law made by the Legislature of a State.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Eighty-third Amendment) Act, 2000, s. 2 (w.e.f. 8-9-2000).