THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
297
(a) if any provision of a law made by a District or Regional
Council in the State of Meghalaya with respect to any matter
specified in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 3 of this Schedule or if
any provision of any regulation made by a District Council or a
Regional Council in that State under paragraph 8 or paragraph 10 of
this Schedule, is repugnant to any provision of a law made by the
Legislature of the State of Meghalaya with respect to that matter,
then, the law or regulation made by the District Council or, as the
case may be, the Regional Council whether made before or after the
law made by the Legislature of the State of Meghalaya, shall, to the
extent of repugnancy, be void and the law made by the Legislature of
the State of Meghalaya shall prevail;
(b) the President may, with respect to any Act of Parliament,
by notification, direct that it shall not apply to an autonomous district
or an autonomous region in the State of Meghalaya, or shall apply to
such district or region or any part thereof subject to such exceptions
or modifications as he may specify in the notification and any such
direction may be given so as to have retrospective effect.]
1[12AA. Application of Acts of Parliament and of the Legislature
of the State of Tripura to the autonomous districts and autonomous
regions in the State of Tripura.—Notwithstanding anything in this
Constitution,—
(a) no Act of the Legislature of the State of Tripura in respect of
any of the matters specified in paragraph 3 of this Schedule as matters
with respect to which a District Council or a Regional Council may
make laws, and no Act of the Legislature of the State of Tripura
prohibiting or restricting the consumption of any non-distilled alcoholic
liquor shall apply to the autonomous district or an autonomous region
in that State unless, in either case, the District Council for that district
or having jurisdiction over such region by public notification so directs,
and the District Council in giving such direction with respect to any Act
may direct that the Act shall, in its application to that district or such
region or any part thereof have effect subject to such exceptions or
modifications as it thinks fit;
1. Paragraph 12AA ins. by the Constitution (Forty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1984, s. 4
(w.e.f. 1-4-1985) and subsequently subs. by the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution
(Amendment) Act, 1988 (67 of 1988), s. 2 (w.e.f. 16-12-1988).