THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XII.—Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits)
167
291. [Privy purse sums of Rulers.].—Omitted by the Constitution
(Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, s. 2 (w.e.f. 28-12-1971).
CHAPTER II.—BORROWING
292. Borrowing by the Government of India.—The executive power
of the Union extends to borrowing upon the security of the Consolidated Fund
of India within such limits, if any, as may from time to time be fixed by
Parliament by law and to the giving of guarantees within such limits, if any, as
may be so fixed.
293. Borrowing by States.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this article,
the executive power of a State extends to borrowing within the territory of India
upon the security of the Consolidated Fund of the State within such limits, if any,
as may from time to time be fixed by the Legislature of such State by law and to
the giving of guarantees within such limits, if any, as may be so fixed.
(2) The Government of India may, subject to such conditions as may be
laid down by or under any law made by Parliament, make loans to any State or,
so long as any limits fixed under article 292 are not exceeded, give guarantees
in respect of loans raised by any State, and any sums required for the purpose
of making such loans shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India.
(3) A State may not without the consent of the Government of India raise
any loan if there is still outstanding any part of a loan which has been made to
the State by the Government of India or by its predecessor Government, or in
respect of which a guarantee has been given by the Government of India or by
its predecessor Government.
(4) A consent under clause (3) may be granted subject to such
conditions, if any, as the Government of India may think fit to impose.
CHAPTER III.—PROPERTY, CONTRACTS, RIGHTS, LIABILITIES,
OBLIGATIONS AND SUITS
294. Succession to property, assets, rights, liabilities and obligations
in certain cases.—As from the commencement of this Constitution—
(a) all property and assets which immediately before such
commencement were vested in His Majesty for the purposes of the
Government of the Dominion of India and all property and assets which
immediately before such commencement were vested in His Majesty for
the purposes of the Government of each Governor’s Province shall vest
respectively in the Union and the corresponding State; and