THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
27
(b) if, after taking the said multiples of one thousand, the remainder is
not less than five hundred, then the vote of each member referred to in
sub-clause (a) shall be further increased by one;
(c) each elected member of either House of Parliament shall have
such number of votes as may be obtained by dividing the total number of
votes assigned to the members of the Legislative Assemblies of the
States under sub-clauses (a) and (b) by the total number of the elected
members of both Houses of Parliament, fractions exceeding one-half
being counted as one and other fractions being disregarded.
(3) The election of the President shall be held in accordance with the
system of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote
and the voting at such election shall be by secret ballot.
1[Explanation.—In this article, the expression “population” means the
population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which the relevant
figures have been published:
Provided that the reference in this Explanation to the last preceding
census of which the relevant figures have been published shall, until the
relevant figures for the first census taken after the year 2[2026] have been
published, be construed as a reference to the 1971 census.]
56. Term of office of President.—(1) The President shall hold office for
a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office:
Provided that—
(a) the President may, by writing under his hand addressed to the
Vice-President, resign his office;
(b) the President may, for violation of the Constitution, be removed
from office by impeachment in the manner provided in article 61;
(c) the President shall, notwithstanding the expiration of his term,
continue to hold office until his successor enters upon his office.
(2) Any resignation addressed to the Vice-President under clause (a) of
the proviso to clause (1) shall forthwith be communicated by him to the
Speaker of the House of the People.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 12, for the
Explanation (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Eighty-fourth Amendment) Act, 2001, s. 2, for "2000"
(w.e.f. 21-2-2002).