THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
288
(3) All laws made under this paragraph shall be submitted forthwith
to the Governor and, until assented to by him, shall have no effect.
14. Administration of justice in autonomous districts and
autonomous regions.—(1) The Regional Council for an autonomous region
in respect of areas within such region and the District Council for an
autonomous district in respect of areas within the district other than those
which are under the authority of the Regional Councils, if any, within the
district may constitute village councils or courts for the trial of suits and
cases between the parties all of whom belong to Scheduled Tribes within
such areas, other than suits and cases to which the provisions of
sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 5 of this Schedule apply, to the exclusion
of any court in the State, and may appoint suitable persons to be members of
such village councils or presiding officers of such courts, and may also
appoint such officers as may be necessary for the administration of the laws
made under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the Regional
Council for an autonomous region or any court constituted in that behalf by
the Regional Council or, if in respect of any area within an autonomous
district there is no Regional Council, the District Council for such district,
or any court constituted in that behalf by the District Council, shall exercise
the powers of a court of appeal in respect of all suits and cases triable by a
village council or court constituted under sub-paragraph (1) of this
paragraph within such region or area, as the case may be, other than those to
which the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 5 of this Schedule
apply, and no other court except the High Court and the Supreme Court
shall have jurisdiction over such suits or cases.
(3) The High Court 2*** shall have and exercise such jurisdiction
over the suits and cases to which the provisions of sub-paragraph (2) of this
paragraph apply as the Governor may from time to time by order specify.
1. Paragraph 4 has been amended in its application to the State of Assam by the Sixth
Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2003 (44 of 2003), s. 2, (w.e.f. 7-9-2003)
so as to insert the following sub-paragraph after sub-paragraph (5), namely:—
“(6) Nothing in this paragraph shall apply to the Bodoland Territorial Council
constituted under the proviso to sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule.” .
2. The words "of Assam" omitted by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971
(81 of 1971), s. 71(i) and Eighth Sch. (w.e.f. 21-1-1972).