THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XII.—Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits)
158
(a) the average excess of expenditure over the revenues during the
two years immediately preceding the commencement of this Constitution
in respect of the administration of the tribal areas specified in 1[Part I] of
the table appended to paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule; and
(b) the costs of such schemes of development as may be
undertaken by that State with the approval of the Government of India
for the purpose of raising the level of administration of the said areas to
that of the administration of the rest of the areas of that State.
2[(1A) On and from the formation of the autonomous State under article
244A,—
(i) any sums payable under clause (a) of the second proviso to
clause (1) shall, if the autonomous State comprises all the tribal areas
referred to therein, be paid to the autonomous State, and, if the
autonomous State comprises only some of those tribal areas, be
apportioned between the State of Assam and the autonomous State as the
President may, by order, specify;
(ii) there shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India as
grants-in-aid of the revenues of the autonomous State sums, capital and
recurring, equivalent to the costs of such schemes of development as
may be undertaken by the autonomous State with the approval of the
Government of India for the purpose of raising the level of
administration of that State to that of the administration of the rest of the
State of Assam.]
(2) Until provision is made by Parliament under clause (1), the powers
conferred on Parliament under that clause shall be exercisable by the President
by order and any order made by the President under this clause shall have effect
subject to any provision so made by Parliament:
Provided that after a Finance Commission has been constituted no order
shall be made under this clause by the President except after considering the
recommendations of the Finance Commission.
276. Taxes on professions, trades, callings and employments.—(1)
Notwithstanding anything in article 246, no law of the Legislature of a State relating
to taxes for the benefit of the State or of a municipality, district board, local board or
other local authority therein in respect of professions, trades, callings or
employments shall be invalid on the ground that it relates to a tax on income.
1. Subs. by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971 (81 of 1971) s. 71,
for "Part A" (w.e.f. 21-1-1972).
2. Ins. by the Constitution (Twenty-second Amendment) Act, 1969, s. 3 (w.e.f. 25-9-1969).