THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
64
138. Enlargement of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.—(1) The
Supreme Court shall have such further jurisdiction and powers with respect to
any of the matters in the Union List as Parliament may by law confer.
(2) The Supreme Court shall have such further jurisdiction and powers
with respect to any matter as the Government of India and the Government of
any State may by special agreement confer, if Parliament by law provides for
the exercise of such jurisdiction and powers by the Supreme Court.
139. Conferment on the Supreme Court of powers to issue certain
writs.—Parliament may by law confer on the Supreme Court power to issue
directions, orders or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus,
mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari, or any of them, for any
purposes other than those mentioned in clause (2) of article 32.
1[139A. Transfer of certain cases.—2[(1) Where cases involving the
same or substantially the same questions of law are pending before the
Supreme Court and one or more High Courts or before two or more High
Courts and the Supreme Court is satisfied on its own motion or on an
application made by the Attorney-General of India or by a party to any such
case that such questions are substantial questions of general importance, the
Supreme Court may withdraw the case or cases pending before the High Court
or the High Courts and dispose of all the cases itself:
Provided that the Supreme Court may after determining the said
questions of law return any case so withdrawn together with a copy of its
judgment on such questions to the High Court from which the case has been
withdrawn, and the High Court shall on receipt thereof, proceed to dispose of
the case in conformity with such judgment.]
(2) The Supreme Court may, if it deems it expedient so to do for the ends
of justice, transfer any case, appeal or other proceedings pending before any
High Court to any other High Court.]
140. Ancillary powers of the Supreme Court.—Parliament may by
law make provision for conferring upon the Supreme Court such supplemental
powers not inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Constitution as may
appear to be necessary or desirable for the purpose of enabling the Court more
effectively to exercise the jurisdiction conferred upon it by or under this
Constitution.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 24 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 21, for cl. (1)
(w.e.f. 1-8-1979).