THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
61
Provided that nothing in this article shall be deemed to require any such
person as aforesaid to sit and act as a Judge of that Court unless he consents so
to do.
129. Supreme Court to be a court of record.—The Supreme Court
shall be a court of record and shall have all the powers of such a court including
the power to punish for contempt of itself.
130. Seat of Supreme Court.—The Supreme Court shall sit in Delhi or
in such other place or places, as the Chief Justice of India may, with the
approval of the President, from time to time, appoint.
131. Original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.—Subject to the
provisions of this Constitution, the Supreme Court shall, to the exclusion of any
other court, have original jurisdiction in any dispute—
(a) between the Government of India and one or more States; or
(b) between the Government of India and any State or States on one
side and one or more other States on the other; or
(c) between two or more States,
if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which
the existence or extent of a legal right depends:
1[Provided that the said jurisdiction shall not extend to a dispute arising
out of any treaty, agreement, covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar
instrument which, having been entered into or executed before the
commencement of this Constitution, continues in operation after such
commencement, or which provides that the said jurisdiction shall not extend to
such a dispute.]
2[131A. Exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in regard to
questions as to constitutional validity of Central laws.].—Omitted by the
Constitution (Forty-third Amendment) Act, 1977, s. 4 (w.e.f. 13-4-1978).
132. Appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in appeals from
High Courts in certain cases.—(1) An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court
from any judgment, decree or final order of a High Court in the territory of
India, whether in a civil, criminal or other proceeding, 3[if the High Court
certifies under article 134A] that the case involves a substantial question of law
as to the interpretation of this Constitution.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 5, for the proviso
(w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 23 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 17, for "if the High
Court certifies" (w.e.f. 1-8-1979).