THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
246
(b) identification of posts or classes of posts under the State
Government and in any body or organisation under the control of the
State Government in the Hyderabad-Karnataka region and reservation of
a proportion of such posts for persons who belong to that region by birth
or by domicile and for appointment thereto by direct recruitment or by
promotion or in any other manner as may be specified in the order.]
372. Continuance in force of existing laws and their adaptation.—(1)
Notwithstanding the repeal by this Constitution of the enactments referred to in
article 395 but subject to the other provisions of this Constitution, all the law in
force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this
Constitution shall continue in force therein until altered or repealed or amended
by a competent Legislature or other competent authority.
(2) For the purpose of bringing the provisions of any law in force in the
territory of India into accord with the provisions of this Constitution, the
President may by order make such adaptations and modifications of such law,
whether by way of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and
provide that the law shall, as from such date as may be specified in the order,
have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made, and any such
adaptation or modification shall not be questioned in any court of law.
(3) Nothing in clause (2) shall be deemed—
(a) to empower the President to make any adaptation or
modification of any law after the expiration of 1[three years] from the
commencement of this Constitution; or
(b) to prevent any competent Legislature or other competent
authority from repealing or amending any law adapted or modified by
the President under the said clause.
See the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, dated the 26th January, 1950, Gazette of
India, Extraordinary, , as amended by notification No. S.R.O. 115, dated the 5th
June, 1950, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, , notification No.
S.R.O. 870, dated the 4th November, 1950, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II,
Section 3, , notification No. S.R.O. 508, dated the 4th April, 1951, Gazette of
India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, , notification No. S.R.O. 1140B, dated
the 2nd July, 1952, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, /1, and the
Adaptation of the Travancore-Cochin Land Acquisition Laws Order, 1952, dated the
20th November, 1952, Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, .
1. Subs. by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, s.12 for "two years"
(w.e.f. 18-6-1951).