THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
301
116. Dissolution of a District or a Regional Council.— 2[(1)] The
Governor may on the recommendation of a Commission appointed under
paragraph 14 of this Schedule by public notification order the dissolution of
a District or a Regional Council, and—
(a) direct that a fresh general election shall be held
immediately for the reconstitution of the Council; or
(b) subject to the previous approval of the Legislature of the
State assume the administration of the area under the authority of
such Council himself or place the administration of such area under
the Commission appointed under the said paragraph or any other
body considered suitable by him for a period not exceeding twelve
months:
Provided that when an order under clause (a) of this paragraph has
been made, the Governor may take the action referred to in clause (b) of this
paragraph with regard to the administration of the area in question pending
the reconstitution of the Council on fresh general election:
Provided further that no action shall be taken under clause (b) of this
paragraph without giving the District or the Regional Council, as the case
may be, an opportunity of placing its views before the Legislature of the
State.
1. Paragraph 16 has been amended in its application to the States of Tripura and
Mizoram by the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 1988
(67 of 1988) s. 2 (w.e.f. 16-12-1988), as under,—
‘(a) in sub-paragraph (1), the words “subject to the previous approval of the
Legislature of the State” occurring in clause (b), and the second proviso shall be
omitted;
(b) for sub-paragraph (3), the following sub-paragraph shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(3) Every order made under sub-paragraph (1) or sub-paragraph (2) of
this paragraph, along with the reasons therefor shall be laid before the
Legislature of the State.”.’.
2. Paragraph 16 renumbered as sub-paragraph (1) thereof by the Assam
Reorganisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969 (55 of 1969), s. 74 and Fourth Sch.
(w.e.f. 2-4-1970).