THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part IV.— Directive Principles of State Policy)
22
1[(f) that children are given opportunities and facilities to develop
in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity and that
childhood and youth are protected against exploitation and against moral
and material abandonment.]
2[39A. Equal justice and free legal aid.—The State shall secure that the
operation of the legal system promotes justice, on a basis of equal opportunity,
and shall, in particular, provide free legal aid, by suitable legislation or schemes
or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not
denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.]
40. Organisation of village panchayats.—The State shall take steps to
organise village panchayats and endow them with such powers and authority as
may be necessary to enable them to function as units of self-government.
41. Right to work, to education and to public assistance in certain
cases.—The State shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and
development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, to
education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness
and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want.
42. Provision for just and humane conditions of work and maternity
relief.—The State shall make provision for securing just and humane
conditions of work and for maternity relief.
43. Living wage, etc., for workers.—The State shall endeavour to
secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to
all workers, agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living wage,
conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of
leisure and social and cultural opportunities and, in particular, the State shall
endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or co-operative basis
in rural areas.
3[43A. Participation of workers in management of industries.—The
State shall take steps, by suitable legislation or in any other way, to secure the
participation of workers in the management of undertakings, establishments or
other organisations engaged in any industry.]
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 7, for cl. (f)
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 8, ibid. (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 9, ibid. (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).