THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
196
those safeguards and other measures for the protection, welfare and
socio-economic development of the Scheduled Castes 1***; and
(f) to discharge such other functions in relation to the protection, welfare
and development and advancement of the Scheduled Castes 1*** as the President
may, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, by rule specify.
(6) The President shall cause all such reports to be laid before each
House of Parliament along with a memorandum explaining the action taken or
proposed to be taken on the recommendations relating to the Union and the
reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any of such recommendations.
(7) Where any such report, or any part thereof, relates to any matter with
which any State Government is concerned, a copy of such report shall be
forwarded to the Governor of the State who shall cause it to be laid before the
Legislature of the State along with a memorandum explaining the action taken
or proposed to be taken on the recommendations relating to the State and the
reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any of such recommendations.
(8) The Commission shall, while investigating any matter referred to in
sub-clause (a) or inquiring into any complaint referred to in sub-clause (b) of
clause (5), have all the powers of a civil court trying a suit and in particular in
respect of the following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from
any part of India and examining him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any
court or office;
(e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses and
documents;
(f) any other matter which the President may, by rule, determine.
(9) The Union and every State Government shall consult the
Commission on all major policy matters affecting Scheduled Castes 1***].
2[(10)] In this article, references to the Scheduled Castes 1*** shall be
construed as including references 3*** to the Anglo-Indian community.
4[338A. National Commission for Scheduled Tribes.—(1) There shall
be a Commission for the Scheduled Tribes to be known as the National
Commission for the Scheduled Tribes.
1. The words "and Scheduled Tribes" omitted by the Constitution (Eighty-ninth
Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 2 (w.e.f. 19-2-2004).
2. Cl. (3) renumbered as cl. (10) by the Constitution (Sixty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1990,
s. 2 (w.e.f. 12-3-1992).
3. The words, brackets and figures "to such other backward classes as the President may,
on receipt of the report of a Commission appointed under cl. (1) of article 340, by
order specify and also" omitted by the Constitution (One Hundred and Second
Amendment) Act, 2018, s. 2 (w.e.f. 15-8-2018).
4. Art 338A ins. by the Constitution (Eighty-ninth Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 3
(w.e.f. 19-2-2004).