THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
247
Explanation I.—The expression “law in force” in this article shall
include a law passed or made by a Legislature or other competent authority in
the territory of India before the commencement of this Constitution and not
previously repealed, notwithstanding that it or parts of it may not be then in
operation either at all or in particular areas.
Explanation II.—Any law passed or made by a Legislature or other
competent authority in the territory of India which immediately before the
commencement of this Constitution had extra-territorial effect as well as effect
in the territory of India shall, subject to any such adaptations and modifications
as aforesaid, continue to have such extra-territorial effect.
Explanation III.—Nothing in this article shall be construed as continuing
any temporary law in force beyond the date fixed for its expiration or the date
on which it would have expired if this Constitution had not come into force.
Explanation IV.—An Ordinance promulgated by the Governor of a
Province under section 88 of the Government of India Act, 1935, and in force
immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall, unless
withdrawn by the Governor of the corresponding State earlier, cease to operate
at the expiration of six weeks from the first meeting after such commencement
of the Legislative Assembly of that State functioning under clause (1) of article
382, and nothing in this article shall be construed as continuing any such
Ordinance in force beyond the said period.
1[372A. Power of the President to adapt laws.—(1) For the purposes
of bringing the provisions of any law in force in India or in any part thereof,
immediately before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh
Amendment) Act, 1956, into accord with the provisions of this Constitution as
amended by that Act, the President may by order made before the first day of
November, 1957, make such adaptations and modifications of the law, whether
by way of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and provide
that the law shall, as from such date as may be specified in the order, have
effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made, and any such
adaptation or modification shall not be questioned in any court of law.
(2) Nothing in clause (1) shall be deemed to prevent a competent
Legislature or other competent authority from repealing or amending any law
adapted or modified by the President under the said clause.]
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 23 (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
See the Adaptation of Laws Order of 1956 and 1957.