THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XII.—Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits)
163
281. Recommendations of the Finance Commission.—The President
shall cause every recommendation made by the Finance Commission under the
provisions of this Constitution together with an explanatory memorandum as to
the action taken thereon to be laid before each House of Parliament.
Miscellaneous Financial Provisions
282. Expenditure defrayable by the Union or a State out of its
revenues.—The Union or a State may make any grants for any public purpose,
notwithstanding that the purpose is not one with respect to which Parliament or
the Legislature of the State, as the case may be, may make laws.
283. Custody, etc., of Consolidated Funds, Contingency Funds and
moneys credited to the public accounts.—(1) The custody of the
Consolidated Fund of India and the Contingency Fund of India, the payment of
moneys into such Funds, the withdrawal of moneys therefrom, the custody of
public moneys other than those credited to such Funds received by or on behalf
of the Government of India, their payment into the public account of India and
the withdrawal of moneys from such account and all other matters connected
with or ancillary to matters aforesaid shall be regulated by law made by
Parliament, and, until provision in that behalf is so made, shall be regulated by
rules made by the President.
(2) The custody of the Consolidated Fund of a State and the
Contingency Fund of a State, the payment of moneys into such Funds, the
withdrawal of moneys therefrom, the custody of public moneys other than
those credited to such Funds received by or on behalf of the Government of the
State, their payment into the public account of the State and the withdrawal of
moneys from such account and all other matters connected with or ancillary to
matters aforesaid shall be regulated by law made by the Legislature of the
State, and, until provision in that behalf is so made, shall be regulated by rules
made by the Governor 1*** of the State.
284. Custody of suitors' deposits and other moneys received by
public servants and courts.—All moneys received by or deposited with—
(a) any officer employed in connection with the affairs of the
Union or of a State in his capacity as such, other than revenues or
public moneys raised or received by the Government of India or the
Government of the State, as the case may be; or
(b) any court within the territory of India to the credit of any
cause, matter, account or persons,
1. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)
Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).