THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
198
(8) The Commission shall, while investigating any matter referred to in
sub-clause (a) or inquiring into any complaint referred to in sub-clause (b) of
clause (5), have all the powers of a civil court trying a suit and in particular in
respect of the following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from
any part of India and examining him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any
court or office;
(e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses and documents;
(f) any other matter which the President may, by rule, determine.
(9) The Union and every State Government shall consult the
Commission on all major policy matters affecting Scheduled Tribes.]
1[338B. National Commission for Backward Classes.—(1) There shall
be a Commission for the socially and educationally backward classes to be
known as the National Commission for Backward Classes.
(2) Subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by
Parliament, the Commission shall consist of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
and three other Members and the conditions of service and tenure of office of
the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Members so appointed shall be
such as the President may by rule determine.
(3) The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other Members of the
Commission shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and
seal.
(4) The Commission shall have the power to regulate its own procedure.
(5) It shall be the duty of the Commission—
(a) to investigate and monitor all matters relating to the safeguards
provided for the socially and educationally backward classes under this
Constitution or under any other law for the time being in force or under
any order of the Government and to evaluate the working of such
safeguards;
(b) to inquire into specific complaints with respect to the
deprivation of rights and safeguards of the socially and educationally
backward classes;
(c) to participate and advise on the socio-economic development
of the socially and educationally backward classes and to evaluate the
progress of their development under the Union and any State;
1.Art 338B ins. by the Constitution (One Hundred and Second Amendment) Act, 2018,
s. 3 (w.e.f. 15-8-2018).