THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
29
"I, A.B., do swear in the name of God that I will faithfully execute the office
solemnly affirm
of President (or discharge the functions of the President) of India and will to the best
of my ability preserve, protect and defend the Constitution and the law and that
I will devote myself to the service and well-being of the people of India.".
61. Procedure for impeachment of the President.—(1) When a
President is to be impeached for violation of the Constitution, the charge shall
be preferred by either House of Parliament.
(2) No such charge shall be preferred unless—
(a) the proposal to prefer such charge is contained in a resolution
which has been moved after at least fourteen days' notice in writing
signed by not less than one-fourth of the total number of members of the
House has been given of their intention to move the resolution, and
(b) such resolution has been passed by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the total membership of the House.
(3) When a charge has been so preferred by either House of Parliament,
the other House shall investigate the charge or cause the charge to be
investigated and the President shall have the right to appear and to be
represented at such investigation.
(4) If as a result of the investigation a resolution is passed by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the total membership of the House by which the
charge was investigated or caused to be investigated, declaring that the charge
preferred against the President has been sustained, such resolution shall have
the effect of removing the President from his office as from the date on which
the resolution is so passed.
62. Time of holding election to fill vacancy in the office of President
and the term of office of person elected to fill casual vacancy.—(1) An
election to fill a vacancy caused by the expiration of the term of office of
President shall be completed before the expiration of the term.
(2) An election to fill a vacancy in the office of President occurring by
reason of his death, resignation or removal, or otherwise shall be held as soon
as possible after, and in no case later than six months from, the date of
occurrence of the vacancy; and the person elected to fill the vacancy shall,
subject to the provisions of article 56, be entitled to hold office for the full term
of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office.
63. The Vice-President of India.—There shall be a Vice-President of India.
64. The Vice-President to be ex officio Chairman of the Council of
States.—The Vice-President shall be ex officio Chairman of the Council of the
States and shall not hold any other office of profit: