THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part IXA.—The Municipalities)
133
243ZA. Elections to the Municipalities.—(1) The superintendence,
direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls for, and the conduct
of, all elections to the Municipalities shall be vested in the State Election
Commission referred to in article 243K.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Legislature of a
State may, by law, make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in
connection with, elections to the Municipalities.
243ZB. Application to Union territories.—The provisions of this Part
shall apply to the Union territories and shall, in their application to a Union
territory, have effect as if the references to the Governor of a State were
references to the Administrator of the Union territory appointed under
article 239 and references to the Legislature or the Legislative Assembly of a
State were references in relation to a Union territory having a Legislative
Assembly, to that Legislative Assembly:
Provided that the President may, by public notification, direct that the
provisions of this Part shall apply to any Union territory or part thereof subject
to such exceptions and modifications as he may specify in the notification.
243ZC. Part not to apply to certain areas.—(1) Nothing in this Part
shall apply to the Scheduled Areas referred to in clause (1), and the tribal areas
referred to in clause (2) of article 244.
(2) Nothing in this Part shall be construed to affect the functions and
powers of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council constituted under any law for the
time being in force for the hill areas of the district of Darjeeling in the State of
West Bengal.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, Parliament may, by
law, extend the provisions of this Part to the Scheduled Areas and the tribal
areas referred to in clause (1) subject to such exceptions and modifications as
may be specified in such law, and no such law shall be deemed to be an
amendment of this Constitution for the purposes of article 368.
243ZD. Committee for district planning.—(1) There shall be
constituted in every State at the district level a District Planning Committee to
consolidate the plans prepared by the Panchayats and the Municipalities in the
district and to prepare a draft development plan for the district as a whole.
(2) The Legislature of a State may, by law, make provision with respect
to—