THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Sixth Schedule)
300
(2) The report of every such Commission with the recommendations
of the Governor with respect thereto shall be laid before the Legislature of
the State by the Minister concerned together with an explanatory
memorandum regarding the action proposed to be taken thereon by 1[the
Government of the State.]
(3) In allocating the business of the Government of the State among
his Ministers the Governor may place one of his Ministers specially in
charge of the welfare of the autonomous districts and autonomous regions in
the State.
215. Annulment or suspension of acts and resolutions of District
and Regional Councils.—(1) If at any time the Governor is satisfied that an
act or resolution of a District or a Regional Council is likely to endanger the
safety of India 3[or is likely to be prejudicial to public order], he may annul
or suspend such act or resolution and take such steps as he may consider
necessary (including the suspension of the Council and the assumption to
himself of all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Council)
to prevent the commission or continuance of such act, or the giving of effect
to such resolution.
(2) Any order made by the Governor under sub-paragraph (1) of this
paragraph together with the reasons therefor shall be laid before the
Legislature of the State as soon as possible and the order shall, unless
revoked by the Legislature of the State, continue in force for a period of
twelve months from the date on which it was so made:
Provided that if and so often as a resolution approving the
continuance in force of such order is passed by the Legislature of the State,
the order shall unless cancelled by the Governor continue in force for a
further period of twelve months from the date on which under this
paragraph it would otherwise have ceased to operate.
1. Subs. by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971 (81 of 1971), s. 71(i)
and Eighth Sch., for "the Government of Assam" (w.e.f. 21-1-1972).
2. Paragraph 15 has been amended in its application to the States of Tripura and
Mizoram by the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 1988
(67 of 1988), s. 2 (w.e.f. 16-12-1988), as under,—
In Paragraph 15, in sub-paragraph (2), —
‘(a) in the opening paragraph, for the words “by the Legislature of the
State”, the words “by him” shall be substituted;
(b) the proviso shall be omitted.’.
3. Ins. by the Assam Reorganisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969 (55 of 1969), s. 74 and
Fourth Sch. (w.e.f. 2-4-1970).