THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
36
78. Duties of Prime Minister as respects the furnishing of information
to the President, etc.—It shall be the duty of the Prime Minister—
(a) to communicate to the President all decisions of the Council of
Ministers relating to the administration of the affairs of the Union and
proposals for legislation;
(b) to furnish such information relating to the administration of the
affairs of the Union and proposals for legislation as the President may
call for; and
(c) if the President so requires, to submit for the consideration of the
Council of Ministers any matter on which a decision has been taken by a
Minister but which has not been considered by the Council.
CHAPTER II.—PARLIAMENT
General
79. Constitution of Parliament.—There shall be a Parliament for the
Union which shall consist of the President and two Houses to be known
respectively as the Council of States and the House of the People.
80. Composition of the Council of States.—(1) 1[2*** The Council of
States] shall consist of—
(a) twelve members to be nominated by the President in accordance
with the provisions of clause (3); and
(b) not more than two hundred and thirty-eight representatives of
the States 3[and of the Union territories].
(2) The allocation of seats in the Council of States to be filled by
representatives of the States 3[and of the Union territories] shall be in
accordance with the provisions in that behalf contained in the Fourth Schedule.
(3) The members to be nominated by the President under sub-clause (a)
of clause (1) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical
experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely:—
Literature, science, art and social service.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Thirty-fifth Amendment) Act, 1974, s. 3, for "The Council
of States" (w.e.f. 1-3-1975).
2. The words "Subject to the provisions of para. 4 of the Tenth Schedule," omitted by the
Constitution (Thirty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1975, s. 5 (w.e.f. 26-4-1975).
3. Added by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 3 (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).