THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Seventh Schedule)
314
64. Institutions for scientific or technical education financed by the
Government of India wholly or in part and declared by Parliament by law to be
institutions of national importance.
65. Union agencies and institutions for—
(a) professional, vocational or technical training, including the
training of police officers; or
(b) the promotion of special studies or research; or
(c) scientific or technical assistance in the investigation or detection
of crime.
66. Co-ordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher
education or research and scientific and technical institutions.
67. Ancient and historical monuments and records, and archaeological
sites and remains, 1[declared by or under law made by Parliament] to be of
national importance.
68. The Survey of India, the Geological, Botanical, Zoological and
Anthropological Surveys of India; Meteorological organisations.
69. Census.
70. Union Public Service; All-India Services; Union Public Service
Commission.
71. Union pensions, that is to say, pensions payable by the Government of
India or out of the Consolidated Fund of India.
72. Elections to Parliament, to the Legislatures of States and to the offices
of President and Vice-President; the Election Commission.
73. Salaries and allowances of members of Parliament, the Chairman and
Deputy Chairman of the Council of States and the Speaker and Deputy Speaker
of the House of the People.
74. Powers, privileges and immunities of each House of Parliament and of
the members and the Committees of each House; enforcement of attendance of
persons for giving evidence or producing documents before committees of
Parliament or commissions appointed by Parliament.
75. Emoluments, allowances, privileges, and rights in respect of leave
of absence, of the President and Governors; salaries and allowances of
the Ministers for the Union; the salaries, allowances, and rights in respect of
leave of absence and other conditions of service of the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 27, for "declared by
Parliament by law" (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).