THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XI.—Relations between the Union and the States)
148
(2) Any Act so passed by Parliament may be amended or repealed by an
Act of Parliament passed or adopted in like manner but shall not, as respects
any State to which it applies, be amended or repealed by an Act of the
Legislature of that State.
253. Legislation for giving effect to international agreements.—
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter,
Parliament has power to make any law for the whole or any part of the territory
of India for implementing any treaty, agreement or convention with any other
country or countries or any decision made at any international conference,
association or other body.
254. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made
by the Legislatures of States.—(1) If any provision of a law made by the
Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by
Parliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or to any provision of an
existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent
List, then, subject to the provisions of clause (2), the law made by Parliament,
whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of such State,
or, as the case may be, the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the
Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.
(2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State 1*** with respect to
one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision
repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing
law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such
State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has
received his assent, prevail in that State:
Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from
enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law
adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature
of the State.
255. Requirements as to recommendations and previous sanctions to
be regarded as matters of procedure only.—No Act of Parliament or of the
Legislature of a State 1***, and no provision in any such Act, shall be invalid
by reason only that some recommendation or previous sanction required by this
Constitution was not given, if assent to that Act was given—
1. The words and letters "specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule" omitted by
the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).