THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVI.—Special Provisions Relating to Certain Classes)
193
shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of 1[eighty years in
respect of clause (a) and seventy years in respect of clause (b)] from the
commencement of this Constitution:
Provided that nothing in this article shall affect any representation in the
House of the People or in the Legislative Assembly of a State until the
dissolution of the then existing House or Assembly, as the case may be.
2[334A. Reservation of seats for women take effect. — (1)
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provision of this Part or Part VIII,
the provisions of the Constitution relating to the reservation of seats for women
in the House of the People, the Legislative Assembly of a State and the
Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi shall come into
effect after an exercise of delimitation is undertaken for this purpose after the
relevant figures for the first census taken after commencement of the
Constitution (One Hundred and Sixth Amendment) Act, 2023 have been
published and shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of fifteen
years from such commencement.
(2) Subject to the provisions of articles 239AA, 330A and 332A, seats
reserved for women in the House of the People, the Legislative Assembly of a
State and the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi
shall continue till such date as the Parliament may by law determine.
(3) Rotation of seats reserved for women in the House of the People, the
Legislative Assembly of a State and the Legislative Assembly of the National
Capital Territory of Delhi shall take effect after each subsequent exercise of
delimitation as the Parliament may by law determine.
(4) Nothing in this article shall affect any representation in the House of
the People, the Legislative Assembly of a State or the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi until the dissolution of the then existing
House of the People, Legislative Assembly of a State or the Legislative
Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi.]
335. Claims of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to services
and posts.—The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the
maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to
services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State:
1. Subs. by the Constitution (One Hundred and Fourth Amendment) Act, 2019, s. 2, for
“seventy years” (w.e.f. 25-1-2020). The words “seventy years” subs. for “sixty years” by
the Constitution (Ninety-fifth Amendment) Act, 2009, s.2 (w.e.f. 25-1-2010). The words
“sixty years” subs. for “fifty years” by the Constitution (Seventy-ninth Amendment) Act,
1999, s. 2 (w.e.f. 25-1-2000). The words “fifty years” subs. for “forty years” by the
Constitution (Sixty-second Amendment) Act, 1989, s. 2 (w.e.f. 20-12-1989). The words
“forty years” subs. for “thirty years” by the Constitution (Forty-fifth Amendment) Act,
1980, s. 2 (w.e.f. 25-1-1980).
2. Ins. by the Constitution (One Hundred and Sixth Amendment) Act, 2023, s.5 (date yet
to be notified).