THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part V.—The Union)
56
120. Language to be used in Parliament.—(1) Notwithstanding
anything in Part XVII, but subject to the provisions of article 348, business in
Parliament shall be transacted in Hindi or in English:
Provided that the Chairman of the Council of States or Speaker of the
House of the People, or person acting as such, as the case may be, may permit
any member who cannot adequately express himself in Hindi or in English to
address the House in his mother-tongue.
(2) Unless Parliament by law otherwise provides, this article shall, after
the expiration of a period of fifteen years from the commencement of this
Constitution, have effect as if the words “or in English” were omitted
therefrom.
121. Restriction on discussion in Parliament.—No discussion shall
take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the
Supreme Court or of a High Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a
motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the
Judge as hereinafter provided.
122. Courts not to inquire into proceedings of Parliament.—(1) The
validity of any proceedings in Parliament shall not be called in question on the
ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure.
(2) No officer or member of Parliament in whom powers are vested by
or under this Constitution for regulating procedure or the conduct of business,
or for maintaining order, in Parliament shall be subject to the jurisdiction of any
court in respect of the exercise by him of those powers.
CHAPTER III.—LEGISLATIVE POWERS OF THE PRESIDENT
123. Power of President to promulgate Ordinances during recess of
Parliament.—(1) If at any time, except when both Houses of Parliament are in
session, the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it
necessary for him to take immediate action, he may promulgate such
Ordinances as the circumstances appear to him to require.
(2) An Ordinance promulgated under this article shall have the same
force and effect as an Act of Parliament, but every such Ordinance—
(a) shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament and shall cease to
operate at the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament,
or, if before the expiration of that period resolutions disapproving it are
passed by both Houses, upon the passing of the second of those
resolutions; and