THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Seventh Schedule)
313
50. Establishment of standards of weight and measure.
51. Establishment of standards of quality for goods to be exported out of
India or transported from one State to another.
52. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament
by law to be expedient in the public interest.
53. Regulation and development of oilfields and mineral oil resources;
petroleum and petroleum products; other liquids and substances declared by
Parliament by law to be dangerously inflammable.
54. Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which
such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by
Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
55. Regulation of labour and safety in mines and oilfields.
56. Regulation and development of inter-State rivers and river valleys to
the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the
Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
57. Fishing and fisheries beyond territorial waters.
58. Manufacture, supply and distribution of salt by Union agencies;
regulation and control of manufacture, supply and distribution of salt by other
agencies.
59. Cultivation, manufacture, and sale for export, of opium.
60. Sanctioning of cinematograph films for exhibition.
61. Industrial disputes concerning Union employees.
62. The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as
the National Library, the Indian Museum, the Imperial War Museum, the
Victoria Memorial and the Indian War Memorial, and any other like institution
financed by the Government of India wholly or in part and declared by
Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.
63. The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the
Benares Hindu University, the Aligarh Muslim University and the 1[Delhi
University; the University established in pursuance of article 371E;] any other
institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Thirty-second Amendment) Act, 1973, s. 4, for "Delhi
University and" (w.e.f. 1-7-1974).