THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XXI.—Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions)
242
(c) in the case of the Assembly deemed to be the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Sikkim under clause (b), the references to the
period of 1[five years], in clause (1) of article 172 shall be construed as
references to a period of 2[four years] and the said period of 2[four years]
shall be deemed to commence from the appointed day;
(d) until other provisions are made by Parliament by law, there shall
be allotted to the State of Sikkim one seat in the House of the People and
the State of Sikkim shall form one parliamentary constituency to be
called the parliamentary constituency for Sikkim;
(e) the representative of the State of Sikkim in the House of the
People in existence on the appointed day shall be elected by the
members of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim;
(f) Parliament may, for the purpose of protecting the rights and
interests of the different sections of the population of Sikkim make
provision for the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the
State of Sikkim which may be filled by candidates belonging to such
sections and for the delimitation of the assembly constituencies from
which candidates belonging to such sections alone may stand for election
to the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim;
(g) the Governor of Sikkim shall have special responsibility for peace
and for an equitable arrangement for ensuring the social and economic
advancement of different sections of the population of Sikkim and in the
discharge of his special responsibility under this clause, the Governor of
Sikkim shall, subject to such directions as the President may, from time
to time, deem fit to issue, act in his discretion;
(h) all property and assets (whether within or outside the territories
comprised in the State of Sikkim) which immediately before the appointed
day were vested in the Government of Sikkim or in any other authority or
in any person for the purposes of the Government of Sikkim shall, as from
the appointed day, vest in the Government of the State of Sikkim;
1. Subs. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 56, for "five years”
(w.e.f. 3-1-1977) and further subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act,
1978, s. 43, for "six years" (w.e.f. 6-9-1979).
2. Subs. by s. 56, ibid., for "four years" (w.e.f. 3-1-1977) and further subs. by s. 43, ibid.,
for "five years", respectively (w.e.f. 6-9-1979).