THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIX.—MISCELLANEOUS)
220
1[361A. Protection of publication of proceedings of Parliament and
State Legislatures.—(1) No person shall be liable to any proceedings, civil or
criminal, in any court in respect of the publication in a newspaper of a
substantially true report of any proceedings of either House of Parliament or the
Legislative Assembly, or, as the case may be, either House of the Legislature,
of a State, unless the publication is proved to have been made with malice:
Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to the publication of any
report of the proceedings of a secret sitting of either House of Parliament or the
Legislative Assembly, or, as the case may be, either House of the Legislature,
of a State.
(2) Clause (1) shall apply in relation to reports or matters broadcast by
means of wireless telegraphy as part of any programme or service provided by
means of a broadcasting station as it applies in relation to reports or matters
published in a newspaper.
Explanation.—In this article, “newspaper” includes a news agency report
containing material for publication in a newspaper.]
2[361B. Disqualification for appointment on remunerative political
post.—A member of a House belonging to any political party who is
disqualified for being a member of the House under paragraph 2 of the Tenth
Schedule shall also be disqualified to hold any remunerative political post for
duration of the period commencing from the date of his disqualification till the
date on which the term of his office as such member would expire or till the
date on which he contests an election to a House and is declared elected,
whichever is earlier.
Explanation.— For the purposes of this article,—
(a)
the expression
“House”
has
the meaning assigned to it in
clause (a) of paragraph 1 of the Tenth Schedule;
(b) the expression “remunerative political post” means any office—
(i) under the Government of India or the Government of a
State where the salary or remuneration for such office is paid
out of the public revenue of the Government of India or the
Government of the State, as the case may be; or
1. Art. 361A ins. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, s. 42
(w.e.f. 20-6-1979).
2. Art. 361B ins. by the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act, 2003, s. 4
(w.e.f. 1-1-2004).