THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XV.—Elections)
187
Provided further that any other Election Commissioner or a Regional
Commissioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation
of the Chief Election Commissioner.
(6) The President, or the Governor 1*** of a State, shall, when so
requested by the Election Commission, make available to the Election
Commission or to a Regional Commissioner such staff as may be necessary for
the discharge of the functions conferred on the Election Commission by
clause (1).
325. No person to be ineligible for inclusion in, or to claim to be
included in a special, electoral roll on grounds of religion, race, caste or
sex.—There shall be one general electoral roll for every territorial constituency
for election to either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the
Legislature of a State and no person shall be ineligible for inclusion in any such
roll or claim to be included in any special electoral roll for any such
constituency on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex or any of them.
326. Elections to the House of the People and to the Legislative
Assemblies of States to be on the basis of adult suffrage.—The elections to
the House of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of every State shall be
on the basis of adult suffrage; that is to say, every person who is a citizen of
India and who is not less than 2[eighteen years] of age on such date as may be
fixed in that behalf by or under any law made by the appropriate Legislature
and is not otherwise disqualified under this Constitution or any law made by
the appropriate Legislature on the ground of non-residence, unsoundness of
mind, crime or corrupt or illegal practice, shall be entitled to be registered as a
voter at any such election.
327. Power of Parliament to make provision with respect to elections
to Legislatures.—Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament
may from time to time by law make provision with respect to all matters
relating to, or in connection with, elections to either House of Parliament or to
the House or either House of the Legislature of a State including the
preparation of electoral rolls, the delimitation of constituencies and all other
matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such House or Houses.
1. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)
Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Sixty-first Amendment) Act, 1988, s. 2, for "twenty-one
years" (w.e.f. 28-3-1989).