THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part IV.— Directive Principles of State Policy)
23
1[43B. Promotion of co-operative societies.—The State shall endeavour
to promote voluntary formation, autonomous functioning, democratic control
and professional management of co-operative societies.]
44. Uniform civil code for the citizens.—The State shall endeavour to
secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India.
2[45. Provision for early childhood care and education to children
below the age of six years.—The State shall endeavour to provide early
childhood care and education for all children until they complete the age of six
years.]
46. Promotion of educational and economic interests of Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other weaker sections.—The State shall
promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker
sections of the people, and, in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of
exploitation.
47. Duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard
of living and to improve public health.—The State shall regard the raising of
the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the
improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the
State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for
medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to
health.
48. Organisation of agriculture and animal husbandry.—The State
shall endeavour to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and
scientific lines and shall, in particular, take steps for preserving and improving
the breeds, and prohibiting the slaughter, of cows and calves and other milch
and draught cattle.
3[48A.
Protection
and
improvement
of
environment
and
safeguarding of forests and wild life.—The State shall endeavour to protect
and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the
country.]
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Ninety-seventh Amendment) Act, 2011, s. 3 (w.e.f. 15-2-2012).
2. Subs. by the Constitution (Eighty-sixth Amendment) Act, 2002, s. 3, for art. 45
(w.e.f. 1-4-2010).
3. Ins. by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, s. 10 (w.e.f. 3-1-1977).