THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XIV.—Services under the Union and the States)
177
313. Transitional provisions.—Until other provision is made in this
behalf under this Constitution, all the laws in force immediately before the
commencement of this Constitution and applicable to any public service or any
post which continues to exist after the commencement of this Constitution, as
an all-India service or as service or post under the Union or a State shall
continue in force so far as consistent with the provisions of this Constitution.
314. [Provision for protection of existing officers of certain services.].—
Omitted by
the
Constitution (Twenty-eighth
Amendment) Act,
1972,
s. 3 (w.e.f. 29-8-1972).
CHAPTER II.— PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSIONS
315. Public Service Commissions for the Union and for the States.—
(1) Subject to the provisions of this article, there shall be a Public Service
Commission for the Union and a Public Service Commission for each State.
(2) Two or more States may agree that there shall be one Public Service
Commission for that group of States, and if a resolution to that effect is passed
by the House or, where there are two Houses, by each House of the Legislature
of each of those States, Parliament may by law provide for the appointment of a
Joint State Public Service Commission (referred to in this Chapter as Joint
Commission) to serve the needs of those States.
(3) Any such law as aforesaid may contain such incidental and
consequential provisions as may be necessary or desirable for giving effect to
the purposes of the law.
(4) The Public Service Commission for the Union, if requested so to do
by the Governor 1*** of a State, may, with the approval of the President, agree
to serve all or any of the needs of the State.
(5) References in this Constitution to the Union Public Service
Commission or a State Public Service Commission shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, be construed as references to the Commission serving the
needs of the Union or, as the case may be, the State as respects the particular
matter in question.
316. Appointment and term of office of members.—(1) The Chairman
and other members of a Public Service Commission shall be appointed, in the
case of the Union Commission or a Joint Commission, by the President, and in
the case of a State Commission, by the Governor of the State:
1. The words "or Rajpramukh" omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment)
Act, 1956, s. 29 and Sch. (w.e.f. 1-11-1956).