THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
(Part XVIII.—EMERGENCY PROVISIONS)
214
1[(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (4), a resolution with
respect to the continuance in force of a Proclamation approved under clause (3)
for any period beyond the expiration of one year from the date of issue of such
Proclamation shall not be passed by either House of Parliament unless—
(a) a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, in the whole of
India or, as the case may be, in the whole or any part of the State, at the
time of the passing of such resolution, and
(b) the Election Commission certifies that the continuance in force
of the Proclamation approved under clause (3) during the period
specified in such resolution is necessary on account of difficulties in
holding general elections to the Legislative Assembly of the State
concerned:]
2[Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to the Proclamation
issued under clause (1) on the 11th day of May, 1987 with respect to the State
of Punjab.]
357. Exercise of legislative powers under Proclamation issued under
article 356.—(1) Where by a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of
article 356, it has been declared that the powers of the Legislature of the State
shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, it shall be
competent—
(a) for Parliament to confer on the President the power of the
Legislature of the State to make laws, and to authorise the President to
delegate, subject to such conditions as he may think fit to impose, the
power so conferred to any other authority to be specified by him in that
behalf;
(b) for Parliament, or for the President or other authority in whom
such power to make laws is vested under sub-clause (a), to make laws
conferring powers and imposing duties, or authorising the conferring of
powers and the imposition of duties, upon the Union or officers and
authorities thereof;
(c) for the President to authorise when the House of the People is
not in session expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State
pending the sanction of such expenditure by Parliament.
1. Ins. by the Constitution (Thirty-eighth Amendment) Act, 1975, s. 6 (with retrospective
effect) and subsequently subs. by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1978, s. 38, for cl. (5) (w.e.f. 20-6-1979).
2. Proviso omitted by the Constitution (Sixty-third Amendment) Act, 1989, s. 2
(w.e.f. 6-1-1990) and subsequently ins. by the Constitution (Sixty-fourth Amendment)
Act, 1990, s. 2 (w.e.f. 16-4-1990).