161
(2) Notice of the application shall be served on the next friend, on any co-plaintiff and on the defendant.
(3) The costs of all parties of such application, and of all or any proceedings theretofore had in the
suit, shall be paid by such persons as the Court directs.
(4) Where the applicant is a necessary party to the suit, the Court may direct him to be made a defendant.
14. Unreasonable or improper suit.—(1) A minor on attaining majority may, if a sole plaintiff,
apply that a suit instituted in his name by his next friend be dismissed on the ground that it was
unreasonable or improper.
(2) Notice of the application shall be served on all the parties concerned; and the Court, upon being
satisfied of such unreasonableness or impropriety, may grant the application and order the next friend to
pay the costs of all parties in respect of the application and of anything done in the suit, or make such
other order as it thinks fit.
1[15. Rules 1 to 14 (Except rule 2A) to apply to persons of unsound mind.—Rules 1 to 14 (except rule
2A) shall, so far as may be, apply to persons adjudged, before or during the pendency of the suit, to be of unsound
mind and shall also apply to persons who, though not so adjudged, are found by the Court on enquiry to be
incapable, by reason of any mental infirmity, of protecting their interest when suing or being sued.]
2[16. Savings.—(1) Nothing contained in this Order shall apply to the Ruler of a foreign State suing
or being sued in the name of his State, or being sued by the direction of the Central Government in the
name of an agent or in any other name.
(2) Nothing contained in this Order shall be construed as affecting or in any way derogating from the
provisions of any local law for the time being in force relating to suits by or against minors or by or
against lunatics or other persons of unsound mind.]
2[ORDER XXXIIA
Suits Relating to matters concerning the family
1. Application of the Order.—(1) The provisions of this Order shall apply to suits or proceedings
relating to matters concerning the family.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-rule (1), the
provisions of this Order shall apply to the following suits or proceedings concerning the family,
namely:—
(a) a suit or proceeding for matrimonial relief, including a suit or proceedings for declaration as
to the validity of a marriage or as to the matrimonial status of any person;
(b) a suit or proceeding for a declaration as to legitimacy of any person;
(c) a suit or proceeding in relation to the guardianship of the person or the custody of any minor
or other member of the family, under a disability;
(d) a suit or proceeding for maintenance;
(e) a suit or proceeding as to the validity or effect of an adoption;
(f) a suit or proceeding, instituted by a member of the family, relating to wills, intestacy and
succession;
(g) a suit or proceeding relating to any other matter concerning the family in respect of which the
parties are subject to their personal law.
(3) So much of this Order as relates to a matter provided for by a special law in respect of any suit or
proceeding shall not apply to that suit or proceeding.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 79, for rule 15 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 80, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).