186
1[(aa) the party seeking to produce additional evidence, establishes that notwithstanding the
exercise of due diligence, such evidence was not within his knowledge or could not, after the exercise of
due diligence, be produced by him at the time when the decree appealed against was passed, or]
(b) the Appellate Court requires any document to be produced or any witness to be examined to
enable it to pronounce judgment, or for any other substantial cause,
the Appellate Court may allow such evidence or document to be produced, or witness to be examined.
(2) Wherever additional evidence is allowed to be produced by an Appellate Court, the Court shall
record the reason for its admission.
28. Mode of taking additional evidence.—Wherever additional evidence is allowed to be produced,
the Appellate Court may either take such evidence, or direct the Court from whose decree the appeal is
preferred, or any other subordinate Court, to take such evidence and to send it when taken to the
Appellate Court.
29. Points to be defined and recorded.—Where additional evidence is, directed, and allowed to be
taken, the Appellate Court shall specify the points to which the evidence is to be confined, and record on
its proceedings the points so specified.
Judgment in appeal
30. Judgment when and where pronounced.—2[(1)]The Appellate Court, after hearing the parties
or their pleaders and referring to any part of the proceedings, whether on appeal or in the Court from
whose decree the appeal is preferred, to which reference may be considered necessary, shall pronounce
judgment in open Court, either at once or on some future day of which notice shall be given to the parties
or their pleaders.
1[(2)Where a written judgment is to be pronounced, it shall be sufficient if the points for determination, the
decision thereon and the final order passed in the appeal are read out and it shall not be necessary for the Court
to read out the whole judgment, but a copy of the whole judgment shall be made available for the perusal of
the parties or their pleaders immediately after the judgment is pronounced. ]
31. Contents, date and signature of judgment.—The judgment of the Appellate Court shall be in
writing and shall state—
(a) the points for determination;
(b) the decision thereon;
(c) the reasons for the decision; and,
(d) where the decree appealed from is reversed or varied, the relief to which the appellant is
entitled;
and shall at the time that it is pronounced be signed and dated by the Judge or by the Judges concurring
therein.
32. What judgment may direct.—The judgment may be for confirming, varying or reversing the
decree from which the appeal is preferred, or, if the parties to the appeal agree as to the form which the
decree in appeal shall take, or as to the order to be made in appeal, the Appellate Court may pass a decree
or make an order accordingly.
33. Power of Court of Appeal.—The Appellate Court shall have power to pass any decree and make
any order which ought to have been passed or made and to pass or make such further or other decree or
order as the case may require, and this power may be exercised by the Court notwithstanding that the
appeal is as to part only of the decree and may be exercised in favour of all or any of the respondents or
parties, although such respondents or parties may not have filed any appeal or objection 1[and may, where
there have been decrees in cross-suits or where two or more decrees are passed in one suit, be exercised in
respect of all or any of the decrees, although an appeal may not have been filed against such decrees:]
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 87 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Rule 30 re-numbered as sub-rule (1) by s. 87, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).