103
7. Court, if satisfied that agreement was executed in good faith, may pronounce judgment.—
Where the Court is satisfied, after making such inquiry as it deems proper,—
(a) that the agreement was duly executed by the parties,
(b) that they have a substantial interest in the decision of such question as aforesaid, and
(c) that the same is fit to be tried and decided,
it shall proceed to record and try the issue and state its finding or decision thereon in the same manner as
if the issue had been framed by the Court;
and shall, upon the finding or decision on such issue, pronounce judgment according to the terms of
the agreement; and, upon the judgment so pronounced, a decree shall follow.
ORDER XV
Disposal of the Suit at the first hearing
1. Parties not at issue.—Where at the first hearing of a suit it appears that the parties are not at issue
on any question of law or of fact, the Court may at once pronounce judgment.
2. One of several defendants not at issue.—1[(1) Where there are more defendants than one, and any
one of the defendants is not at issue with the plaintiff on any question of law or of fact, the Court may at once
pronounce judgment for or against such defendant and the suit shall proceed only against the other
defendants.]
2[(2) Whenever a judgment is pronounced under this rule, decree shall be drawn up in accordance
with such judgment and the decree shall bear the date on which the judgment was pronounced.]
3. Parties at issue.—(1) Where the parties are at issue on some question of law or of fact, and issues
have been framed by the Court as hereinbefore provided, if the Court is satisfied that no further argument
or evidence that the parties can at once adduce is required upon such of the issues as may be sufficient for
the decision of the suit, and that no injustice will result from proceeding with the suit forthwith, the Court
may proceed to determine such issues, and, if the finding thereon is sufficient for the decision, may
pronounce judgment accordingly, whether the summons has been issued for the settlement of issues only
or for the final disposal of the suit:
Provided that, where the summons has been issued for the settlement of issues only, the parties or
their pleaders are present and none of them objects.
(2) Where the finding is not sufficient for the decision, the Court shall postpone the further hearing of
the suit, and shall fix a day for the production of such further evidence, or for such further argument as
the case requires.
4. Failure to produce evidence.—Where the summons has been issued for the final disposal of the
suit and either party fails without sufficient cause to produce the evidence on which he relies, the Court
may at once pronounce judgment, or may, if it thinks fit, after framing and recording issues, adjourn the
suit for the production of such evidence as may be necessary for its decision upon such issues.
ORDER XVI
Summoning and attendance of witnesses
3[1. List of witnesses and summons to witnesses.—(1) On or before such date as the Court may
appoint, and not later than fifteen days after the date on which the issues are settled, the parties shall
present in Court a list of witnesses whom they propose to call either to give evidence or to produce
documents and obtain summonses to such persons for their attendance in Court.
1. Rule 2 renumbered as sub-rule (1) by Act 104 of 1976, s. 65 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 65, ibid. (w.e.f 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 66, ibid., for rule 1 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).