170
application by him in execution], may, if the balance is legally recoverable from the plaintiff otherwise
than out of the property sold, pass a decree for such balance.]
9. Decree where nothing is found due or where mortgagee has been overpaid.—Notwithstanding
anything hereinbefore contained, if it appears, upon taking the account referred to in rule 7, that nothing is
due to the defendant or that he has been overpaid, the Court shall pass a decree directing the defendant, if so
require, to re-transfer the property and to pay to the plaintiff the amount which may be found due to him;
and the plaintiff shall, if necessary, be put in possession of the mortgaged property.
1[10. Costs of mortgagee subsequent to decree.—In finally adjusting the amount to be paid to a
mortgagee in case of a foreclosure, sale or redemption, the Court shall, unless in the case of costs of the
suit the conduct of the mortgagee has been such as to disentitle him thereto, add to the mortgage-money
such costs of the suit and other costs, charges and expenses as have been properly incurred by him since
the date of the preliminary decree for foreclosure, sale or redemption up to the time of actual payment:
2[Provided that where the mortgagor, before or at the time of the institution of the suit, tenders or
deposits the amount due on the mortgage, or such amount as is not subsequently deficient in the opinion
of the Court, he shall not be ordered to pay the costs of the suit to the mortgagee and the mortgagor shall
be entitled to recover his own costs of the suit from the mortgagee, unless the Court, for reasons to be
recorded, otherwise directs.]
2[10A. Power of Court to direct mortgagee to pay manse profits.—Wherein a suit for foreclosure, the
mortgagor has, before or at the time of the institution of the suit, tendered or deposited the sum due on the
mortgage, or such sum as is not substantially deficient in the opinion of the Court, the Court shall direct the
mortgagee to pay to the mortgagor manse profits for the period beginning with the institution of the suit].
11. Payment of interest. —In any decree passed in a suit for foreclosure, sale or redemption, where
interest is legally recoverable, the Court may order payment of interest to the mortgagee as follows, namely:—
(a)interest up to the date on or before which payment of the amount found or declared due is under
the preliminary decree to be made by the mortgagor or other person redeeming the mortgage—
(i) on the principal amount found or declared due on the mortgage,—at the rate payable on
the principal, or, where no such rate is fixed, at such rate as the Court Deems reasonable,
3*
*
*
*
* and
(iii) on the amount adjudged due to the mortgagee for costs, charges and expenses properly
incurred by the mortgagee in respect of the mortgage-security up to the date of the preliminary
decree and added to the mortgage-money,—at the rate agreed between the parties or, failing such
rate, 4[at such rate not exceeding six per cent. per annum as the Court deems reasonable]; and
5[(b) subsequent interest up to the date of realisation or actual payment on the aggregate of the
principal sums specified in clause (a) as calculated in accordance with that clause at such rate as the
Court deems reasonable.]
12. Sale of property subject to prior mortgage.—Where any property the sale of which is directed
under this Order is subject to a prior mortgage, the Court may, with the consent of the prior mortgagee,
direct that the property be sold free from the same, giving to such prior mortgagee the same interest in the
proceeds of the sale as he had in the property sold.
1. Subs. by Act, 21 of 1929, s. 6, for rules 10 and 11.
2. Ins. by Act, 104 of 1976, s. 82 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Sub-clause (ii) omitted by Act 66 of 1956, s. 14.
4. Subs. by s. 14, for certain words.
5. Subs. by s. 14, ibid., for cl.(b).