175
(b) if the defendant is permitted to defend as to the whole or any part of the claim, the Court or
Judge may direct him to give such security and within such time as may be fixed by the Court or Judge
and that, on failure to give such security within the time specified by the Court or Judge or to carry out
such other directions as may have been given by the Court or Judge, the plaintiff shall be entitled to
judgment forthwith.
(7) The Court or Judge may, for sufficient cause shown by the defendant, excuse the delay of the
defendant in entering an appearance or in applying for leave to defend the suit.]
4. Power to set aside decree.—After decree the Court may, under special circumstances, set aside
the decree, and if necessary stay or set aside execution, and may give leave to the defendant to appear to
the summons and to defend the suit, if it seems reasonable to the Court so to do, and on such terms as the
Court thinks fit.
5. Power to order bill, etc., to be deposited with officer of Court.—In any proceeding under this
Order the Court may order the bill, hundior note on which the suit is founded to be forthwith deposited
with an officer of the Court, and may further order that all proceedings shall be stayed until the plaintiff
gives security for the costs thereof.
6. Recovery of cost of noting non-acceptance of dishonored bill or note.—The holder of every
dishonored bill of exchange or promissory note shall have the same remedies for the recovery of the
expenses incurred in noting the same for non-acceptance or non-payment, or otherwise, by reason of
such dishonor, as he has under this Order for the recovery of the amount of such bill or note.
7. Procedure in suits.—Save as provided by this Order, the procedure in suits hereunder shall be the
same as the procedure in suits instituted in the ordinary manner.
ORDER XXXVIII
Arrest and Attachment before judgment
Arrest before judgment
1. Where defendant may be called upon to furnish security for appearance.—Where at any
stage of a suit, other than a suit of the nature referred to in section 16, clauses (a) to (d), the Court is
satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise,—
(a) that the defendant, with intent to delay the plaintiff, or to avoid any process of the Court or to
obstruct or delay the execution of any decree that may be passed against him,—
(i) has absconded or left the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court, or
(ii) is about to abscond or leave the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court, or
(iii) has disposed of or removed from the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court his
property or any part thereof, or
(b) that the defendant is about to leave 1[India] under circumstances affording reasonable
probability that the plaintiff will or may thereby be obstructed or delayed in the execution of any
decree that may be passed against the defendant in the suit,
the Court may issue a warrant to arrest the defendant and bring him before the Court to show cause why
he should not furnish security for his appearance :
Provided that the defendant shall not be arrested if he pays to the officer entrusted with the execution of
the warrant any sum specified in the warrant as sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's claim; and such sum shall
be held in deposit by the Court until the suit is disposed of or until the further order of the Court.
1. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3. for “the States”.