59
RULES
11. Oral application.
Written application.
11A. Application for arrest to state grounds.
12. Application for attachment of movable property not in judgment-debtor’s possession.
13. Application for attachment of immovable property to contain certain particulars.
14. Power to require certified extract from Collector’s register in certain cases.
15. Application for execution by joint decree-holder.
16. Application for execution by transferee of decree.
17. Procedure on receiving application for execution of decree.
18. Execution in case of cross-decrees.
19. Execution in case of cross-claims under same decree.
20. Cross-decrees and cross-claims in mortgage-suits.
21. Simultaneous execution.
22. Notice to show cause against execution in certain cases.
22A. Sale not to be set aside on the death of the judgment-debtor before the sale but after the service of
the proclamation of sale.
23. Procedure after issue of notice.
Process for execution
24. Process for execution.
25. Endorsement on process.
Stay of execution
26. When Court may stay execution.
Power to require security from, or impose conditions upon, judgment-debtor.
27. Liability of judgment-debtor discharged.
28. Order of Court which passed decree or of appellate Court to be binding upon Court applied to.
29. Stay of execution pending suit between decree-holder and judgment-debtor.
Mode of execution
30. Decree for payment of money.
31. Decree for specific movable property.
32. Decree for specific performance for restitution of conjugal rights or for an injunction.
33. Discretion of Court in executing decrees for restitution of conjugal rights.
34. Decree for execution of document, or endorsement of negotiable instrument.
35. Decree for immovable property.
36. Decree for delivery of immovable property when in occupancy of tenant.
Arrest and detention in the civil prison
37. Discretionary power to permit judgment-debtor to show cause against detention in prison.
38. Warrant for arrest to direct judgment-debtor to be brought up.
39. Subsistence-allowance.
40. Proceedings on appearance of judgment-debtor in obedience to notice or after arrest.