280
Now the plaintiff decree-holder having applied to execute the decree, the defendant has made an application
praying for stay of execution and has been called upon to furnish security. Accordingly I, of my own free will,
stand security to the extent of Rs. ……………… mortgaging the properties specified in the schedule
hereunto annexed, and covenant that if the decree of the first Court be confirmed or varied by the Appellate
Court the said defendant shall duly act in accordance with the decree of the Appellate Court and shall pay
whatever may be payable by him thereunder, and if he should fail therein then any amount so payable shall
be realized from the properties hereby mortgaged, and if the proceeds of the sale of the said properties are
insufficient to pay the amount due, I and my legal representatives will be personally liable to pay the balance.
To this effect I execute this security bond this………..day of………………19……….
Schedule
(Signed.)
Witnessed by
1.
2.
No. 3
SECURITY BOND TO BE GIVEN DURING THE PENDENCY OF APPEAL
(O .41, r. 6.)
(Title)
To
THIS security bond on stay of execution of decree executed by witnesseth:—
That………………., the plaintiff in Suit No……………………of……………………19…….
having sued………………, defendant, in this Court and a decree having been passed on the
………………….day of ……………………….19……in favour of the plaintiff, and the defendant having
preferred an appeal from the said decree in the Court, the said appeal is still pending.
Now the plaintiff decree-holder has applied for execution of the said decree and has been called upon to
furnish security. Accordingly I, of my own free will, stand security to the extent of Rs…………… ………,
mortgaging the properties specified in the schedule hereunto annexed, and covenant that if the decree of the
first Court be reversed or varied by the Appellate Court, the plaintiff shall restore any property which may be
or has been taken in execution of the said decree and shall duly act in accordance with the decree of the
Appellate Court and shall pay whatever may be payable by him thereunder, and if he should fail therein then
any amount so payable shall be realized from the properties hereby mortgaged, and if the proceeds of the sale
of the said properties are insufficient to pay the amount due, I and my legal representatives will be personally
liable to pay the balance. To this effect I execute this security bond this……………………day of
……………….19…….
Schedule
(Signed.)
Witnessed by
1.
2.