98
placed in the same position as if he had not defended, and the party interrogating or seeking discovery or
inspection may apply to the Court for an order to that effect and 1[an order may be made on such
application accordingly, after notice to the parties and after giving them a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.]
2[(2) Where an order is made under sub-rule (1) dismissing any suit, the plaintiff shall be precluded
from bringing a fresh suit on the same cause of action.]
22. Using answer to interrogatories at trial.—Any party may, at the trial of a suit, use in evidence
any one or more of the answers or any part of an answer of the opposite party to interrogatories without
putting in the others or the whole of such answer :
Provided always that in such case the Court may look at the whole of the answers, and if it shall be of
opinion that any others of them are so connected with those put in that the last-mentioned answer ought
not to be used without them, it may direct them to be put in.
23. Order to apply to minors.—This Order shall apply to minor plaintiffs and defendants, and to the
next friends and guardians for the suit of persons under disability.
ORDER XII
Admissions
1. Notice of admission of case.—Any party to a suit may give notice, by his pleading, or otherwise in
writing, that he admits the truth of the whole or any part of the case of any other party.
2. Notice to admit documents.—Either party may call upon the other party 3[to admit, within
4[seven] days from the date of service of the notice any document,] saving all exceptions; and in case of
refusal or neglect to admit, after such notice, the costs of proving any such document shall be paid by the
party so neglecting or refusing, whatever the result of the suit may be, unless the Court otherwise directs;
and no costs of proving any document shall be allowed unless such notice is given, except where the
omission to give the notice is, in the opinion of the Court, a saving of expense.
5[2A. Document to be deemed to be admitted if not denied after service of notice to admit
documents.—(1) Every document which a party is called upon to admit, if not denied specifically or by
necessary implication, or stated to be not admitted in the pleading of that party or in his reply to the notice
to admit documents, shall be deemed to be admitted except as against a person under a disability:
Provided that the Court may, in its discretion and for reasons to be recorded, require any document so
admitted to be proved otherwise than by such admission.
(2) Where a party unreasonably neglects or refuses to admit a document after the service on him of the
notice to admit documents, the Court may direct him to pay costs to the other party by way of
compensation.]
3. Form of notice.—A notice to admit documents shall be in Form No. 9 in Appendix C, with such
variations as circumstances may require.
6[3A. Power of Court to record admission.—Notwithstanding that no notice to admit documents
has been given under rule 2, the Court may, at any stage of the proceeding before it, of its own motion,
call upon any party to admit any document and shall, in such a case, record whether the party admits or
refuses or neglects to admit such document.]
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 61, for “an order may be made accordingly” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 61, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 62, ibid., for “to admit any document” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 22, for “fifteen” (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 62 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Ins. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 14.