97
17. Time for inspection when notice given.—The party to whom such notice is given shall, within
ten days from the receipt of such notice, deliver to the party giving the same a notice stating a time within
three days from the delivery thereof at which the documents, or such of them as he does not object to
produce, may be inspected at the office of his pleader, or in the case of bankers’ books or other books of
account or books in constant use for the purposes of any trade or business, at their usual place of custody,
and stating which (if any) of the documents he objects to produce, and on what ground. Such notice shall
be in Form No. 8 in Appendix C; with such variations as circumstances may require.
18. Order for inspection.—(1) Where the party served with notice rule 15 omits to give such notice
of a time for inspection or objects to give inspection, or offers inspection elsewhere than at the office of
his pleader, the Court may, on the application of the party desiring it, make an order for inspection in such
place and in such manner as it may think fit
Provided that the order shall not be made when and so far as the Court shall be of opinion that it is not
necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs.
(2) Any application to inspect documents, except such as are referred to in the pleadings, particulars
or affidavit of the party against whom the application is made or disclosed in his affidavit of documents,
shall be founded upon an affidavit showing of what documents inspection is sought, that the party
applying is entitled to inspect them, and that they are in the possession or power of the other party. The
Court shall not make such order for inspection of such documents when and so far as the Court shall be of
opinion that it is not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs.
19. Verified copies.—(1) Where inspection of any business books is applied for, the Court may, if it
thinks fit, instead of ordering inspection of the original books, order a copy of any entries therein to be
furnished and verified by the affidavit of some person who has examined the copy with the original
entries, and such affidavit shall state whether or not there are in the original book any and what erasures,
interlineations or alterations:
Provided that, notwithstanding that such copy has been supplied, the Court may order inspection of
the book from which the copy was made.
(2) Where on an application for an order for inspection privilege is claimed for any document, it shall
be lawful for the Court to inspect the document for the purpose of deciding as to the validity of the claim
of privilege 1[unless the document relates to matters of State.]
(3) The Court may, on the application of any party to suit at any time, and whether an affidavit of
documents shall or shall not have already been ordered or made, make an order requiring any other
party to state by affidavit whether any one or more specific documents, to be specified in the
application, is or are, or has or have at any time been, in his possession or power; and, if not then in
his possession, when he parted with the same and what has become thereof. Such application shall be
made on an affidavit stating that in the belief of the deponent the party against whom the application
is made has, or has at some time had, in his possession or power the document or documents
specified in the application, and that they relate to the matters in question in the suit, or to some of
them.
20. Premature discovery.—Where the party from whom discovery of any kind or inspection is
sought objects to the same, or any part thereof, the Court may, if satisfied that the right to the discovery or
inspection sought depends on the determination of any issue or question in dispute in the suit, or that for
any other reason it is desirable that any issue or question in dispute in the suit should be determined
before deciding upon the right to the discovery or inspection, order that such issue or question be
determined first, and reserve the question as to the discovery or inspection.
21. Non-compliance with order for discovery.—2[(1)] Where any party fails to comply with any order to
answer interrogatories, or for discovery or inspection of documents, he shall, if a plaintiff, be liable to have his
suit dismissed for want of prosecution, and, if a defendant, to have his defence, if any, struck out, and to be
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 61 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Rule 21 renumbered as sub-rule (1) by s. 61. ibid (w.e.f. 1-2-19.77).