30
thirdly, in discharging the interest and principal monies due on subsequent incumbrances (if
any); and
fourthly, rateably among the holders of decrees for the payment of money against the
judgement-debtor, who have, prior to the sale of the property, applied to the Court which passed
the decree ordering such sale for execution of such decrees, and have no obtained satisfaction
thereof.
(2) Where all or any of the assets liable to be rateably distributed under this section are paid to a
person not entitled to receive the same, any person so entitled may sue such person to compel him to
refund the assets.
(3) Nothing in this section affects any right of the Government.
RESISTANCE TO EXECUTION
74. Resistance to execution.— Where the Court is satisfied that the holder of a decree for the
possession of immovable property or that the purchaser of immovable property sold in execution of a
decree has been resisted or obstructed in obtaining possession of the property by the judgment-debtor or
some person on his behalf and that such resistance or obstruction was without any just cause, the Court
may, at the instance of the decree-holder or purchaser, order the judgment-debtor or such other person to
be detained in the civil prison for a term which may extend to thirty days and may further direct that the
decree-holder or purchaser be put into possession of the property.
PART III
INCIDENTAL PROCEEDINGS
COMMISSIONS
75. Power of Court to issue commissions.—Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
prescribed, the Court may issue a commission—
(a) to examine any person;
(b) to make a local investigation;
(c) to examine or adjust accounts; or
(d) to make a partition;
1[(e) to hold a scientific, technical, or expert investigation;
(f) to conduct sale of property which is subject to speedy and natural decay and which is in the
custody of the Court pending the determination of the suit;
(g) to perform any ministerial act.]
76. Commission to another Court.—(1) A commission for the examination of any person may be
issued to any Court (not being a High Court) situate in a State other than the State in which the Court of
issue is situate and having jurisdiction in the place in which the person to be examined resides.
(2) Every Court receiving a commission for the examination of any person under sub-section (1) shall
examine him or cause him to be examined pursuant thereto, and the commission, when it has been duly
executed, shall be returned together with the evidence taken under it to the Court from which it was
issued, unless the order for issuing the commission has otherwise directed, in which case the commission
shall be returned in terms of such order.
77. Letter of request.—In lieu of issuing a commission the Court may issue a letter of request to
examine a witness residing at any place not within 2[India]
3[78. Commissions issued by foreign Courts.—Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
prescribed the provisions as to the execution and return of commissions for the examination of witnesses
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3, for “the States”.
3. Subs. by s. 11, ibid., for s. 78.