118
Courts executing Decrees
3. Lands situate in more than one jurisdiction.—Where immovable property forms one estate or
tenure situate within the local limits of the jurisdiction of two or more Courts, any one of such Courts
may attach and sell the entire estate or tenure.
4.Transfer to Court of Small Causes. —Where a decree has been passed in a suit of which the value as
set forth in the plaint did not exceed two thousand rupees and which, as regards its subject-matter, is not
excepted by the law for the title being in force from the cognizance of either a Presidency or a Provincial Court
of Small Causes, and the Court which passed it wishes it to be executed in Calcutta, Madras 1[or Bombay],
such Court may send to the Court of Small Causes in Calcutta. Madras 1[or Bombay], as the case may be, the
copies and certificates mentioned in rule 6; and such Court of Small Causes shall thereupon execute the decree
as if it had been passed by itself.
2[5. Mode of transfer.—Where a decree is to be sent for execution to another Court, the Court which
passed such decree shall send the decree directly to such other Court whether or not such other Court is
situated in the same State, but the Court to which the decree is sent for execution shall, if it has no
jurisdiction to execute the decree, send it to the Court having such jurisdiction.]
6. Procedure where Court desires that its own decree shall be executed by another Court.—The
Court sending a decree for execution shall send—
(a) a copy of the decree;
(b) a certificate setting forth that satisfaction of the decree has not been obtained by execution within
the jurisdiction of the Court by which it was passed, or, where the decree has been executed in part, the
extent to which satisfaction has been obtained and what part of the decree remains unsatisfied; and
(c) a copy of any order for the execution of the decree, or, if no such order has been made, a
certificate to that effect.
7. Court receiving copies of decree, etc., to file same without proof.—The Court to which a decree
is so sent shall cause such copies and certificates to be filed, without any further proof of the decree or
order for execution, or of the copies thereof, unless the Court, for any special reasons to be recorded
under the hand of the Judge, requires such proof.
8. Execution of decree or order by Court to which it is sent.—Where such copies are so filed, the
decree or order may, if the Court to which it is sent is the District Court, be executed by such Court or be
transferred for execution to any subordinate Court of competent jurisdiction.
9. Execution by High Court of decree transferred by other Court.—Where the Court to which the
decree is sent for execution is a High Court, the decree shall be executed by such Court in the same
manner as if it had been passed by such Court in the exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
Application for execution
10. Application for execution.—Where the holder of a decree desires to execute it, he shall apply to
the Court which passed the decree or to the officer (if any) appointed in this behalf, or if the decree has
been sent under the provisions hereinbefore contained to another Court then to such Court or to the proper
officer thereof.
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Bombay or Rangoon”.
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 72, for rule 5 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).