308
(4) Interrogatories shall be in the form provided in Form No. 2 in Appendix C to the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908, with such variations as circumstances may require.
(5) Where any party to a suit is a corporation or a body of persons, whether incorporated or not,
empowered by law to sue or be sued, whether in its own name or in the name of any officer of
other person, any opposite party may apply for an order allowing him to deliver interrogatories to
any member or officer of such corporation or body, and an order may be made accordingly.
(6) Any objection to answering any interrogatory on the ground that it is scandalous or
irrelevant or not exhibited bona fide for the purpose of the suit, or that the matters inquired into are
not sufficiently material at that stage, or on the ground of privilege or any other ground may be
taken in the affidavit in answer.
(7) Any interrogatories may be set aside on the ground that they have been exhibited
unreasonably or vexatiously, or struck out on the ground that they are prolix, oppressive,
unnecessary or scandalous and any application for this purpose may be made within seven days
after service of the interrogatories.
(8) Interrogatories shall be answered by affidavit to be filed within ten days, or within such
other time as the court may allow.
(9) An affidavit in answer to interrogatories shall be in the form provided in Form No. 3 in
Appendix C to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, with such variations as circumstances may
require.
(10) No exceptions shall be taken to any affidavit in answer, but the sufficiency or otherwise of
any such affidavit objected to as insufficient shall be determined by the court.
(11) Where any person interrogated omits to answer, or answers insufficiently, the party
interrogating may apply to the court for an order requiring him to answer, or to answer further, as
the case may be, and an order may be made requiring him to answer, or to answer further, either
affidavit or by viva voce examination, as the court may direct.
3. Inspection. –– (1) All parties shall complete inspection of all documents disclosed within
thirty days of the date of filing of the written statement or written statement to the counterclaim,
whichever is later. The Court may extend this time limit upon application at its discretion, but not
beyond thirty days in any event.
(2) Any party to the proceedings may seek directions from the Court, at any stage of the
proceedings, for inspection or production of documents by the other party, of which inspection has
been refused by such party or documents have not been produced despite issuance of a notice to
produce.
(3) Order in such application shall be disposed of within thirty days of filing such application,
including filing replies and rejoinders (if permitted by Court) and hearing.
(4) If the above application is allowed, inspection and copies thereof shall be furnished to the
party seeking it, within five days of such order.
(5) No party shall be permitted to rely on a document, which it had failed to disclose or of
which inspection has not been given, save and except with leave of Court.
(6) The Court may impose exemplary costs against a defaulting party, who wilfully or
negligently failed to disclose all documents pertaining to a suit or essential for a decision therein
and which are in their power, possession, control or custody or where a Court holds that inspection
or copies of any documents had been wrongfully or unreasonably withheld or refused.
4. Admission and denial of documents. — (1) Each party shall submit a statement of
admissions or denials of all documents disclosed and of which inspection has been completed,
within fifteen days of the completion of inspection or any later date as fixed by the Court.
(2) The statement of admissions and denials shall set out explicitly, whether such party was
admitting or denying:—