176
2. Security.—(1) Where the defendant fails to show such cause the Court shall order him either to
deposit in Court money or other property sufficient to answer the claim against him, or to furnish security
for his appearance at any time when called upon while the suit is pending and until satisfaction of any
decree that may be passed against him in the suit, or make such order as it thinks fit in regard to the sum
which may have been paid by the defendant under the proviso to the last preceding rule.
(2) Every surety for the appearance of a defendant shall bind himself, in default of such appearance,
to pay any sum of money which the defendant may be ordered to pay in the suit.
3. Procedure on application by surety to be discharged.—(1) A surety for the appearance of a defendant
may at any time apply to the Court in which he became such surety to be discharged from his obligation.
(2) On such application being made, the Court shall summon the defendant to appear or, if it thinks
fit, may issue a warrant for his arrest in the first instance.
(3) On the appearance of the defendant in pursuance of the summons or warrant, or on his voluntary
surrender, the Court shall direct the surety to be discharged from his obligation, and shall call upon the
defendant to find fresh security.
4. Procedure where defendant fails to furnish security or find fresh security.—Where the defendant
fails to comply with any order under rule 2 or rule 3, the Court may commit him to the civil prison until the
decision of the suit or, where a decree is passed against the defendant, until the decree has been satisfied:
Provided that no person shall be detained in prison under this rule in any case for a longer period than
six months, nor for a longer period than six weeks when the amount or value of the subject-matter of the
suit does not exceed fifty rupees :
Provided also that no person shall be detained in prison under this rule after he has complied with
such order.
Attachment before Judgment
5. Where defendant may be called upon to furnish security for production of property.—(1)
Where, at any stage of a suit, the Court is satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that the defendant, with
intent to obstruct or delay the execution of any decree that may be passed against him,—
(a) is about to dispose of the whole or any part of his property, or
(b) is about to remove the whole or any part of his property from the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the Court,
the Court may direct the defendant, within a time to be fixed by it, either to furnish security, in such sum
as may be specified in the order, to produce and place at the disposal of the Court, when required, the said
property or the value of the same, or such portion thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the decree, or to
appear and show cause why he should not furnish security.
(2) The plaintiff shall, unless the Court otherwise directs, specify the property required to be attached
and the estimated value thereof.
(3) The Court may also in the order direct the conditional attachment of the whole or any portion of
the property so specified.
1[(4) If an order of attachment is made without complying with the provisions of sub-rule (1)of this
rule, such attachment shall be void.]
6. Attachment where cause not shown or security not furnished.—(1) Where the defendant fails
to show cause why he should not furnish security, or fails to furnish the security required, within the time
fixed by the Court, the Court may order that the property specified, or such portion thereof as appears
sufficient to satisfy any decree which may be passed in the suit, be attached.
(2) Where the defendant shows such cause or furnishes the required security, and the property
specified or any portion of it has been attached, the Court shall order the attachment to be withdrawn, or
make such other order as it thinks fit.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976. s. 85 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).