159
(2) Where a minor has a guardian appointed or declared by competent authority, no person other than
such guardian shall act as the next friend of the minor or be appointed his guardian for the suit unless the
Court considers, for reasons to be recorded, that it is for the minor's welfare that another person be
permitted to act or be appointed, as the case may be.
(3) No person shall without his consent 1[in writing] be appointed guardian for the suit.
(4) Where there is no other person fit and willing to act as guardian for the suit, the Court may
appoint any of its officers to be such guardian, and may direct that the costs to be incurred by such officer
in the performance of his duties as such guardian shall be borne either by the parties or by any one or
more of the parties to the suit, or out of any fund in Court in which the minor is interested 1[or out of the
property of the minor], and may give directions for the repayment or allowance of such costs as justice
and the circumstances of the case may require.
5. Representation of minor by next friend or guardian for the suit.—(1) Every application to the
Court on behalf of a minor, other than an application under rule 10, sub-rule (2), shall be made by his next
friend or by his guardian for the suit.
(2) Every order made in a suit or on any application, before the Court in or which a minor is in any way
concerned or affected, without such minor being represented by a next friend or guardian for the suit, as the
case may be, may be discharged, and, where the pleader of the party at whose instance such order was
obtained knew, or might reasonably have known, the fact of such minority, with costs to be paid by such
pleader.
6. Receipt by next friend or guardian for the suit of property under decree for minor.—(1) A
next friend or guardian for the suit shall not, without the leave of the Court, receive any money or other
movable property on behalf of a minor either—
(a) by way of compromise before decree or order, or
(b) under a decree or order in favour of the minor.
(2) Where the next friend or guardian for the suit has not been appointed or declared by competent
authority to be guardian of the property of the minor, or, having been so appointed or declared, is under
any disability known to the Court to receive the money or other movable property, the Court shall, if it
grants him leave to receive the property, require such security and give such directions as will, in its
opinion, sufficiently protect the property from waste and ensure its proper application :
2[Provided that the Court may, for reasons to be recorded, dispense with such security while granting
leave to the next friend or guardian for the suit to receive money or other movable property under a
decree or order, where such next friend or guardian—
(a) is the manager of a Hindu undivided family and the decree or order relates to the property or
business of the family; or
(b) is the parent of the minor.]
7. Agreement or compromise by next friend or guardian for the suit.—(1) No next friend or guardian
for the suit shall, without the leave of the Court, expressly recorded in the proceedings, enter into any agreement
or compromise on behalf of a minor with reference to the suit in which he acts as next friend or guardian.
1[(1A) An application for leave under sub-rule (1) shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the next
friend or the guardian for the suit, as the case may be, and also, if the minor is represented by a pleader,
by the certificate of the pleader, to the effect that the agreement or compromise proposed is, in his
opinion, for the benefit of the minor :
Provided that the opinion so expressed, whether in the affidavit or in the certificate shall not preclude the
Court from examining whether the agreement or compromise proposed is, for the benefit of the minor. ]
(2) Any such agreement or compromise entered into without the leave of the Court so recorded shall
be voidable against all parties other than the minor:
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 79 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).