219
No. 13
DEFENCE TO SUIT FOR SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE
1. The defendant did not enter into the agreement.
2. A.B. was not the agent of the defendant (if alleged by plaintiff).
3. The plaintiff has not performed the following conditions—(Conditions).
4. The defendant did not—(alleged acts of part performance).
5. The plaintiff's title to the property agreed to be sold is not such as the defendant is bound to
accept by reason of the following matter—(State why).
6. The agreement is uncertain in the following respects—(State them).
7. (or) The plaintiff has been guilty of delay.
8. (or) The plaintiff has been guilty of fraud (or misrepresentation).
9. (or) The agreement is unfair.
10. (or) The agreement was entered into by mistake.
11. The following are particulars of (7), (8), (9), (10) (or as the case may be).
12. The agreement was rescinded under Conditions of Sale, No. 11 (or by mutual agreement).
(In cases where damages are claimed and the defendant disputes his liability to damages, he must
deny the agreement or the alleged breaches, or show whatever other ground of defence he intends to rely
on, e.g., the1 Indian Limitation Act, accord and satisfaction, release, fraud, etc.)
No. 14
DEFENCE IN ADMINISTRATION SUIT BY PECUNIARY LEGATEE
1. A.B.’swill contained a charge of debts; he died insolvent; he was entitled at his death to some
immovable property which the defendant sold and which produced the net sum of Rs and the
testator had some movable property which the defendant got in, and which produced the net sum of Rs
2. The defendant applied the whole of the said sums and the sum of Rs which the
defendant received from rents of the immovable property in the payment of the funeral and testamentary
expenses and some of the debts of the testator.
3. The defendant made up his accounts and sent a copy thereof to the plaintiff on the ..day
of 19 , and offered the plaintiff free access to the vouchers to verify such accounts,
but he declined to avail himself of the defendant’s offer.
4. The defendant submits that the plaintiff ought to pay the cost of this suit.
No. 15
PROBATE OF WILL IN SOLEMN FORM
1. The said will and codicil of the deceased were not duly executed according to the provisions of the
Indian Succession Act, 18652 (10 of 1865) [or of the Hindu Wills Act, 18702 (21 of 1870)].
2. The deceased at the time the said will and codicil respectively purport to have been executed, was
not of sound mind, memory and understanding.
3. The execution of the said will and, codicil was obtained by the undue influence of the plaintiff [and
others acting with him whose names are at present unknown to the defendant.]
4. The execution of the said will and codicil was obtained by the fraud of the plaintiff, such fraud so
far as is within the defendant's present knowledge, being [state the nature of the fraud.]
1. See now the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963).
2. See now the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925).