156
2. Disclosure of partners’ names.—(1) Where a suit is instituted by partners in the name of their
firm, the plaintiffs or their pleader shall, on demanding writing by or on behalf of any defendant,
forthwith declare in writing the names and places of residence of all the persons constituting the firm on
whose behalf the suit is instituted.
(2) Where the plaintiffs or their pleader fail to comply with any demand made under sub-rule (1) all
proceedings in the suit may, upon an application for that purpose, be stayed upon such terms as the Court
may direct.
(3) Where the names of the partners are declared in the manner referred to in sub-rule (1) the suit
shall proceed in the same manner, and the same consequences in all respects shall follow, as if they had
been named as plaintiffs in the plaint:
1[Provided that all proceedings shall nevertheless continue in the name of the firm, but the name of
the partners disclosed in the manner specified in sub-rule (1) shall be entered in the decree.]
3. Service.—Where persons are sued as partners in the name of their firm, the summons shall be
served either—
(a) upon any one or more of the partners, or
(b) at the principal place at which the partnership business is carried on within 2[India] upon any
person having, at the time of service, the control or management of the partnership business, there,
as the Court may direct; and such service shall be deemed good service upon the firm so sued, whether all
or any of the partners are within or without 2[India] :
Provided that, in the case of a partnership which has been dissolved to the knowledge of the plaintiff
before the institution of the suit, the summons shall be served upon every person within 2[India] whom it
is sought to make liable.
4. Rights of suit on death of partner.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 45 of the Indian
Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872) where two or more persons may sue or be sued in the name of a firm under the
foregoing provisions and any of such persons dies, whether before the institution or during the pendency of any
suit, it shall not be necessary to join the legal representative of the deceased as a party to the suit.
(2) Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall limit or otherwise effect any right which the legal representative of
the deceased may have—
(a)to apply to be made a party to the suit, or
(b) to enforce any claim against the survivor or survivors.
5. Notice in what capacity served.—Where a summons is issued to a firm and is served in the manner
provided by rule 3, every person upon whom it is served shall be informed by notice in writing given at the
time of such service, whether he is served as a partner or as a person having the control or management of
the partnership business, or in both characters, and, in default of such notice, the person served shall be
deemed to be served as a partner.
6. Appearance of partners.—Where persons are sued as partners in the name of their firm, they
shall appear individually in their own names, but all subsequent proceedings shall, nevertheless, continue
in the name of the firm.
7. No appearance except by partners.—Where a summons is served in the manner provided by rule
3 upon a person having the control or management of the partnership business, no appearance by him
shall be necessary unless he is a partner of the firm sued.
3[8. Appearance under protest.—Any person served with summons as a partner under rule 3 may
enter an appearance under protest, denying that he was a partner at any material time.
(2) On such appearance being made, either the plaintiff or the person entering the appearance may, at
any time before the date fixed for hearing and final disposal of the suit, apply to the Court for determining
whether that person was a partner of the firm and liable as such.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 78, for the proviso (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3, for “the States”.
3. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 78, for rule 8 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).