301
(3) No appeal or civil revision application under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908), as the case may be, shall lie from an order of a Commercial Division or Commercial
Court finding that it has jurisdiction to hear a commercial dispute under this Act.
13. Appeals from decrees of Commercial Courts and Commercial Divisions.––(1) Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Commercial Court or Commercial Division of a High Court may
appeal to the Commercial Appellate Division of that High Court within a period of sixty days from
the date of judgment or order, as the case may be:
Provided that an appeal shall lie from such orders passed by a Commercial Division or a
Commercial Court that are specifically enumerated under Order XLIII of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908, (5 of 1908), as amended by this Act and section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996 (26 of 1996).
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or Letters
Patent of a High Court, no appeal shall lie from any order or decree of a Commercial Division or
Commercial Court otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
14. Expeditious disposal of appeals. –– The Commercial Appellate Division shall endeavour to
dispose of appeals filed before it within a period of six months from the date of filing of such appeal.
CHAPTER V
TRANSFER OF PENDING SUITS
15. Transfer of pending cases. –– (1) All suits and applications, including applications under the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996) , relating to a commercial dispute of a Specified
Value pending in a High Court where a Commercial Division has been constituted, shall be
transferred to the Commercial Division.
(2) All suits and applications, including applications under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996 (26 of 1996) , relating to a commercial dispute of a Specified Value pending in any civil court in
any district or area in respect of which a Commercial Court has been constituted, shall be transferred
to such Commercial Court:
Provided that no suit or application where the final judgment has been reserved by the Court prior
to the constitution of the Commercial Division or the Commercial Court shall be transferred either
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2).
(3) Where any suit or application, including an application under the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act, 1996 (26 of 1996), relating to a commercial dispute of Specified Value shall stand transferred to
the Commercial Division or Commercial Court under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the
provisions of this Act shall apply to those procedures that were not complete at the time of transfer.
(4) The Commercial Division or Commercial Court, as the case may be, may hold case
management hearings in respect of such transferred suit or application in order to prescribe new
timelines or issue such further directions as may be necessary for a speedy and efficacious disposal of
such suit or application in accordance with Order XIV-A of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908):
Provided that the proviso to sub-rule (1) of Rule 1 of Order V of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908) shall not apply to such transferred suit or application and the court may, in its discretion,
prescribe a new time period within which the written statement shall be filed.
(5) In the event that such suit or application is not transferred in the manner specified in sub-
section (1), sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), the Commercial Appellate Division of the High Court
may, on the application of any of the parties to the suit, withdraw such suit or application from the
court before which it is pending and transfer the same for trial or disposal to the Commercial Division
or Commercial Court, as the case may be, having territorial jurisdiction over such suit, and such order
of transfer shall be final and binding.