47
139. Oath on affidavit by whom to be administered.— In the case of any affidavit under this Code—
(a) any Court or Magistrate, or
1[(aa) any notary appointed under the Notaries Act, 1952 (53 of 1952); or]
(b) any officer or other person whom a High Court may appoint in this behalf, or
(c) any officer appointed by any other Court which the State Government has generally or
specially empowered in this behalf,
may administer the oath to the deponent.
140. Assessors in causes of salvage, etc.—(1) In any admiralty or vice-admiralty cause of salvage to
wage or collision the Court, whether it be exercising its original or its appellate jurisdiction, may, if it
thinks fit, and shall upon request of either party to such cause, summon to its assistance, in such manner as
it may direct or as may be prescribed, two competent assessors; and such assessors shall attend and assist
accordingly.
(2) Every such assessor shall receive such fees for his attendance, to be paid by such of the parties
as the Court may direct or as may be prescribed.
141. Miscellaneous proceedings.—The procedure provided in this Code in regard to suits shall be
followed, as far as it can be made applicable, in all proceedings in any Court of civil jurisdiction.
2[Explanation.— In this section, the expression “proceedings” includes proceedings under Order
IX, but does not include any proceedings under article 226 of the Constitution.]
142. Orders and notices to be in writing.—All orders and notices served on or given to any
person under the provisions of this Code shall be in writing.
143. Postage.—Postage, where chargeable on a notice, summons or letter issued under this Code
and forwarded by post, and the fee for registering the same, shall be paid within a time to be fixed
before the communication is made:
Provided that the State Government 3*** may remit such postage, or fee, or both, or may prescribe
a scale of court-fees to be levied in lieu thereof.
144. Application for restitution.—(1)Where and in so far as a decree 4[or an order] is 5[varied or
reversed in any appeal, revision or other proceeding or is set aside or modified in any suit instituted for the
purpose, the Court which passed the decree or order] shall, on the application of any party entitled to any
benefit by way of restitution or otherwise, cause such restitution to be made as will, so far as may be, place
the parties in the position which they would have occupied but for such decree 4[or order] or 5[such part
thereof as has been varied, reversed, set aside or modified]; and for this purpose, the Court may make any
orders, including orders for the refund of costs and for the payment of interest, damages, compensation and
mesne profits, which are properly5[consequential on such variation, reversal, setting aside or modification
of the decree or order].
6[Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-section (1), the expression “Court which passed the
decree or order” shall be deemed to include,—
(a)where the decree or order has been varied or reversed in exercise of appellate or revision
jurisdiction, the Court of first instance;
(b)where the decree or order has been set aside by a separate suit, the court of first instance
which passed such decree or order.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 46 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by, s. 47, ibid. (w.e.f 1-2-1977).
3. The words “with the previous sanction of the G.G, in C.” omitted by Act 38 of 1920, s 2 and the First Sch. I, Pt. I
4. Ins. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 13.
5. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976. s. 48, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Ins. by. s. 48, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).