121
18. Execution in case of cross-decrees.—(1) Where applications are made to a Court for the
execution of cross-decrees in separate suits for the payment of two sums of money passed between the
same parties and capable of execution at the same time by such Court, then—
(a) if the two sums are, equal, satisfaction shall be entered upon both decrees; and
(b) if the two sums are unequal, execution may be taken out only by the holder of the decree for
the larger sum and for so much only as remains after deducting the smaller sum, and satisfaction for
the smaller sum shall be entered on the decree for the larger sum as well as satisfaction on the decree
for the smaller sum.
(2) This rule shall be deemed to apply where either party is an assignee of one of the decrees and as
well in respect of judgment-debts due by the original assignor as in respect of judgment-debts due by the
assignee himself.
(3) This rule shall not be deemed to apply unless—
(a) the decree-holder in one of the suits in which the decrees have been made is the judgment-
debtor in the other and each party files the same character in both suits; and
(b) the sums due under the decrees are definite.
(4) The holder of a decree passed against several persons jointly and severally may treat it as a cross-
decree in relation to a decree passed against him singly in favour of one or more of such persons.
Illustrations
(a) A holds a decree against B for Rs. 1,000. B holds a decree against A for the payment of Rs. 1,000 in case A
fails to deliver certain goods at a future day. B cannot treat his decree as a cross-decree under this rule.
(b) A and B, co-plaintiffs, obtain a decree for Rs. 1,000 against C, and C obtains a decree for Rs. 1,000 against
B. C. cannot treat his decree as a cross-decree under this rule.
(c) A obtains a decree against B for Rs. 1,000. C, who is a trustee for B, obtains a decree on behalf of B against
A for Rs. 1,000. B cannot treat C's decree as a cross-decree under this rule.
(d) A, B, C, D and E are jointly and severally laible for Rs. 1,000 under a decree obtained by F. A obtains a
decree for Rs. 1,000 against F singly and applies for execution to the Court in which the joint-decree is being
executed. F may treat his joint-decree as cross-decree under this rule.
19. Execution in case of cross-claims under same decree.—Where application is made to a Court
for the execution of a decree under which two parties are entitled to recover sums of money from each
other, then,—
(a) if the two sums are equal, satisfaction for both shall be entered upon the decree; and,
(b) if the two sums are unequal, execution may be taken out only by the party entitled to the
larger sum and for so much only as remains after deducting the smaller sum, and satisfaction for the
smaller sum shall be entered upon the decree.
20. Cross-decrees and cross-claims in mortgage-suits.—The provisions contained in rules 18 and
19 shall apply to decrees for sale in enforcement of a mortgage or charge.
21. Simultaneous execution.—The Court may, in its discretion, refuse execution at the same time
against the person and property of the judgment-debtor.
22. Notice to show cause against execution in certain cases.—(1) Where an application for
execution is made—
(a) more than 1[two years] after the date of the decree, or
(b) against the legal representative of a party to the decree 2[or where an application is made for
execution of a decree filed under the provisions of section 44A], 3[or]
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 72, for “one year” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by Act 8 of 1937, s. 3.
3. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 72 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).