249
2. It is further declared that defendant No. 2 is entitled to payment of the amount due to him in
priority to the plaintiff 1[or (if there are several subsequent mortgages) that the several parties hereto are
entitled in following order to the payment of the sums due to them respectively :—]
3. And it is hereby ordered and decreed as follows:—
(i) (a) that the plaintiff or defendant No. 1 or one of them do pay into Court on or before the ….
day of ………………. or any later date up to which time for payment has extended by the Court the
said sum of Rs. ………………. due to defendant No. 2; and
(b) that defendant No. 1 do pay into Court on or before the …………….day of …………….. or
any later date up to which time for payment has been extended by the Court the said sum of Rs.
………… due ……………… to the plaintiff; and
(ii) that, on payment of the sum declared due to defendant No. 2 by the plaintiff defendant No. 1 or
either of them in the manner prescribed in clause (i) (a) and on payment thereafter before such date as
the Court may fix of such amount as the Court may adjudge due in respect of such costs of the suit and
in such costs, charges and expenses as may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent
interest as may be payable under rule 11, of Order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, defendant No. 2 shall bring into Court all documents in his possession or power
relating to the mortgaged property in the plaint mentioned, and all such documents shall be delivered
over to the plaintiff or defendant No. 1 (whoever has made the payment), or to such person as he
appoints, and defendant No. 2 shall, if so required, reconvey or re-transfer the said property free from
the said mortgage and clear of and from all encumbrances created by defendant No. 2 or any person
claiming under him or any person under whom he claims, and also free from all liability whatsoever
arising from the mortgage or this suit and shall, if so required, deliver up to the plaintiff or defendant
No. 1 (whoever has made the payment) quiet and peaceable possession of the said property.
(Similar declarations) to be introduced, if defendant No. 1 pays the amount found or declared due to
the plaintiff with such variations as may be necessary having regard to the nature of his mortgage.)
4. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, in default of payment as aforesaid, of the amount
due to defendant No. 2, defendant No. 2 shall be at liberty to apply to the Court that the suit be dismissed
or for a final decree—
(i) 1[in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale or an anomalous mortgage where the only remedy
provided for in the mortgage-deed is foreclosure and not sale]that the plaintiff and defendant No. 1 jointly
and severally shall thenceforth stand absolutely debarred and foreclosed of and from all right to redeem the
mortgaged property described in the Schedule annexed hereto and shall; if so required, deliver to the
defendant No. 2 quiet and peaceable possession of the said property; or
(ii) 1[in the case of any other mortgage] that the mortgaged property or a sufficient part thereof shall
be sold; and that for the purposes of such sale defendant No. 2 shall produce before the Court or such
officer as it appoints, all documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged property and
(iii) 1[in the case where a sale is ordered under clause 4 (ii) above] that the money realized by such sale
shall be paid into Court and be duly applied (after deduction therefrom of the expenses of the sale) in
payment of the amount payable to defendant No. 2 under the decree and any further orders that may be
passed in this suit and in payment of the amount which the Court may adjudge due to defendant No. 2 in
respect of such costs of the suit and such costs, charges and expenses as may be payable to the plaintiff under
rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be payable under rule 11, of Order XXXIV of the First
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908; and that the balance, if any, shall be applied in payment of
the amount due to the plaintiff and that, if any balance be left, it shall be paid to defendant No. 1 or other
persons entitled to receive the same; and
1. Words not required to be deleted.