85
(6) Where a suit is stayed or a defence is struck out under sub-rule (5), the plaintiff or, as the case
may be, the defendant may, after furnishing his true address, apply to the Court for an order to set aside
the order of stay or, as the case may be, the order striking out the defence.
(7) The Court, if satisfied that the party was prevented by any sufficient cause from filing the true
address at the proper time, shall set aside the order of stay or order striking out the defence, on such terms
as to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit and shall appoint a day for proceeding with the suit or defence, as
the case may be.
(8) Nothing in this rule shall prevent the Court from directing the service of a process at any other
address, if, for any reason, it thinks fit to do so.]
15. Verification of pleadings.—(1) Save as otherwise provided by any law for the time being in
force, every pleading shall be verified at the foot by the party or by one of the parties pleading or by some
other person proved to the satisfaction of the Court to be acquainted with the facts of the case.
(2) The person verifying shall specify, by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the pleading, what he
verifies of his own knowledge and what he verifies upon information received and believed to be true.
(3) The verification shall be signed by the person making it and shall state the date on which and the
place at which it was signed.
1[(4) The person verifying the pleading shall also furnish an affidavit in support of his pleadings.
2[16. Striking out pleadings.—The Court may at any stage of the proceedings order to be struck out
or amended any matter in any pleading—
(a) which may be unnecessary, scandalous, frivolous or vexatious, of
(b) which may tend to prejudice, embarrass or delay the fair trail of the suit, or
(c) which is otherwise an abuse of the process of the Court.]
3[17. Amendment of pleadings.—The Court may at any stage of the proceedings allow either party
to alter or amend his pleadings in such manner and on such terms as may be just, and all such
amendments shall be made as may be necessary for the purpose of determining the real questions in
controversy between the parties :
Provided that no application for amendment shall be allowed after the trial has commenced, unless
the Court comes to the conclusion that in spite of due diligence, the party could not have raised the matter
before the commencement of trial.
18. Failure to amend after Order.—If a party who has obtained an order for leave to amend does
not amend accordingly within the time limited for that purpose by the order, or if no time is thereby
limited then within fourteen days from the date of the order, he shall not be permitted to amend after the
expiration of such limited time as aforesaid or of such fourteen days, as the case may be, unless the time
is extended by the Court.]
ORDER VII
Plaint
1. Particulars to be contained in plaint.—The plaint shall contain the following particulars:—
(a) the name of the Court in which the suit is brought;
(b) the name, description and place of residence of the plaintiff;
1. Ins. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 16 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 56, for rule 16 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 7, for rules 17 and 18 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).