173
3. Agreement to be filed and registered as suit.—(1) The agreement, if framed in accordance with
the rules hereinbefore contained, may be filed 1[with an application] in the Court which would have
jurisdiction to entertain a suit, the amount or value of the subject-matter of which is the same as the
amount or value of the subject-matter of the agreement.
(2) 2[The application] when so filed, shall be numbered and registered as a suit between one or more
of the parties claiming to be interested as plaintiff or plaintiffs, and the other or the others of them as
defendant or defendants; and notice shall be given to all the parties to the agreement, other than the party
or parties by whom 3[the application was presented.]
4. Parties to be subject to Court’s jurisdiction.—Where the agreement has been filed, the parties to
it shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Court and shall be bound by the statements contained therein.
5. Hearing and disposal of case.—(1) The case shall be set down for hearing as a suit instituted in the
ordinary manner, and the provisions of this Code shall apply to such suit so far as the same are applicable.
(2) Where the Court is satisfied, after examination of the parties, or after taking such evidence as it
thinks fit—
(a) that the agreement was duly executed by them,
(b) that they have a bona fide interest in the question stated therein, and
(c) that the same is fit to be decided,
it shall proceed to pronounce judgment thereon, in the same way as in an ordinary suit, and upon the
judgment so pronounced a decree shall follow.
4[6. No appeal from a decree passed under rule 5.—No appeal shall lie from a decree passed under
rule 5.]
ORDER XXXVII
Summary Procedure 5***
6[1. Courts and classes of suits to which the Order is to apply.—(1) This Order shall apply to the
following Courts, namely :—
(a) High Courts, City Civil Courts and Courts of Small Causes; and
(b) other Courts:
Provided that in respect of the Courts referred to in clause (b), the High Court may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, restrict the operation of this Order only to such categories of suits as it deems proper,
and may also, from time to time, as the circumstances of the case may require, by subsequent notification
in the Official Gazette, further restrict, enlarge or vary, the categories of suits to be brought under the
operation of this Order as it deems proper.
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1), the Order applies to the following classes of suits.
namely:—
(a) suits upon bills of exchange, hundies and promissory notes;
(b) suits in which the plaintiff seeks only to recover a debt or liquidated demand in money
payable by the defendant, with or without interest, arising,—
(i) on a written contract; or
(ii) on an enactment, where the sum sought to be recovered is a fixed sum of money or in the
nature of a debt other than a penalty; or
(iii) on a guarantee, where the claim against the principal is in respect of a debt or liquidated
demand only.]
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 83 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 83, ibid., for “The agreement” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 83, ibid., for “it was presented” (w.e.f. 1-2.1977).
4. Ins. by s. 83, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
5. The words “On Negotiable Instruments” omitted by s. 84, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Subs. by s. 84, ibid., for rule 1 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).