210
[As in paras. 4 and 5 of Form No. 1]
5. The plaintiff claims—
(1) a declaration that the defendant is not entitled to obstruct the passage of the public along the
said road;
(2) an injunction restraining the defendant from obstructing the passage of the public along the
said public road and directing the defendant to remove the earth and stones wrongfully heaped up as
aforesaid.
No. 38
INJUNCTION AGAINST THE DIVERSION OF A WATER-COURSE
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
[As in form No. 27.]
The plaintiff claims that the defendant be restrained by injunction from diverting the water as aforesaid.
No. 39
RESTORATION OF MOVABLE PROPERTY THREATENED WITH DESTRUCTION AND FOR AN INJUNCTION
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. Plaintiff is, and at all times hereinafter mentioned was, the owner of [a portrait of his grandfather
which was executed by an eminent painter], and of which no duplicate exists [or state any facts
showing that the property is of a kind that cannot be replaced by money].
2. On the day of 19…..he deposited the same for the safe-keeping with the
defendant.
3. On the day of 19……., he demanded the same from the defendant and offered
to pay all reasonable charges for the storage of the same.
4. The defendant refuses to deliver the same to the plaintiff and threatens to conceal, dispose of, cut
or injure the same if required to deliver it up.
5. No pecuniary compensation would be an adequate compensation to the plaintiff for the loss of the
[painting].
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No. 1. ]
8. The plaintiff claims—
(1) that the defendant be restrained by injunction from disposing of, injuring or concealing the
said[painting];
(2) that he be compelled to deliver the same to the plaintiff.
No. 40
INTERPLEADER
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. Before the date of the claims hereinafter mentioned G.H. deposited with the plaintiff [describe the
property) for [safe-keeping].
2 The defendant C.D. claims the same [under an alleged assignment thereof to him from G.H.].
3. defendant E. F. also claims the same [under an order of G.H. transferring the same to him.]
4. The plaintiff is ignorant of the respective rights of the defendants.
5. He has no claim upon the said property other than for charges and costs, and is ready and willing to
deliver it to such persons as the Court shall direct.