289
No. 11A
NOTICE TO MINOR DEFENDANT
(Order XXXII, r. 3.)
(Title)
Minor Defendant.
To
WHEREAS an application has been presented on the part of the plaintiff in the above suit for the
appointment of *as guardian for the suit for you, the minor defendant, you are hereby
required
to
take
notice
to
appear
in
this
Court
in
person
on
the day
of 19 at O’clock in the forenoon to show cuase against the application,
failing which the said application will be heard and determined ex parte.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19
Judge.]
No. 12
NOTICE TO OPPOSITE PARTY OF DAY FIXED FOR HEARING EVIDENCE OF PAUPERISM
(O. 33, r.6.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS ..
has applied to this Court for permission to institute a suit against in forma pauper sunder
Order XXXIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908; and whereas the Court sees no reason to reject
the application; and whereas the day of 19 has been fixed for receiving such
evidence as the applicant may adduce in proof of his pauperism and for hearing any evidence which may
be adduced in disproof thereof:
Notice is hereby given to you under rule 6 of Order XXXIII that in case you may wish to offer any
evidence to disprove the pauperism of the applicant, you may do so on appearing in this Court on the said
day of 19 .
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19 .
Judge.
No. 13
NOTICE TO SURETY OF HIS LIABILITY UNDER A DECREE
(Section 145)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS you did on become liable as surety
for the performance of any decree which might be passed against the
said defendant in the above suit; and whereas a decree was passed on
the day of 19 against the said defendant for the payment
of and whereas application has been made for execution of the said
decree against you:
Take notice that you are hereby required on or before the day of 19
to show cause why the said decree should not be executed against you, and if no sufficient cause shall be,
within the time specified, shown to the satisfaction of the Court, an order for its execution will forthwith
issued in the terms of the said application.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19.
Judge.