163
(b) where no such fee is prescribed, if he is not entitled to property worth one thousand rupees
other than the property exempt from attachment in execution of a decree, and the subject-matter of the
suit.
Explanation II.—Any property which is acquired by a person after the presentation of his
application for permission to sue as an indigent person, and before the decision of the application, shall be
taken into account in considering the question whether or not the applicant is an indigent person.
Explanation III—Where the plaintiff sues in a representative capacity, the question whether he is an
indigent person shall be determined with reference to the means possessed by him in such capacity.]
1[1A. Inquiry into the means of an indigent person.—Every inquiry into the question whether or
not a person is an indigent person shall be made, in the first instance, by the chief ministerial officer of the
Court, unless the Court otherwise directs, and the Court may adopt the report of such officer as its own
finding or may itself make an inquiry into the question.]
2. Contents of application.—Every application for permission to sue as an 2[indigent person] shall
contain the particulars required in regard to plaints in suits: a schedule of any movable or immovable property
belonging to the applicant, with the estimated value thereof, shall be annexed thereto; and it shall be
signed and verified in the manner prescribed for the signing and verification of pleadings.
3. Presentation of application.—Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules the application shall
be presented to the Court by the applicant in person, unless he is exempted from appearing in Court, in which
case the application may be presented by an authorized agent who can answer all material questions relating to
the application, and who may be examined in the same manner as the party represented by him might have
been examined had such party attended in person:
1[Provided that, where there are more plaintiffs than one, it shall be sufficient if the application is
presented by one of the plaintiffs.]
4. Examination of applicant.—(1) Where the application is in proper form and duly presented, the
Court may, if it thinks fit, examine the applicant, or his agent when the applicant is allowed to appear by
agent regarding the merits of the claim and the property of the applicant.
(2) If presented by agent, Court may order applicant to be examined by commission.—Where
the application is presented by an agent, the Court may, if it thinks fit, order that the applicant be
examined by a commission in the manner in which the examination of an absent witness may be taken.
5. Rejection of application.—The Court shall reject an application for permission to use as 2[an
indigent person]—
(a) where it is not framed and presented in the manner prescribed by rules 2 and 3, or
(b) where the applicant is not an 2[indigent person], or
(c) where he has, within two months next before the presentation of the application, disposed of any
property fraudulently or in order to be able to apply for permission to use as an 2[indigent person]:
1[Provided that no application shall be rejected if, even after the value of the property disposed of by
the applicant is taken into account, the applicant would be entitled to sue as an indigent person,] or
(d) where his allegations do not show a cause of action, or
(e) where he has entered into any agreement with reference to the subject-matter of the proposed
suit under which any other person has obtained an interest in such subject-matter;1[or]
1[(f) where the allegations, made by the applicant in the application show that the suit would be
barred by any law for the time being in force, or
(g) where any other person has entered into an agreement with him to finance the litigations].
.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 81 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 81, ibid.,for “pauper” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).