203
No. 17
AGAINST A BUILDER FOR DEFECTIVE WORKMANSHIP
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. On the………….day of………. 19…… the plaintiff and defendant entered into an agreement, and
the original document is hereto annexed. [Or state the tenor of the contract.]
[2. The plaintiff duly performed all the conditions of the agreement on his part.]
3.The defendant [built the house referred to in the agreement in a bad and unwork man like manner].
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No. 1, and Relief claimed.]
No. 18
ON A BOND FOR THE FIDELITY OF A CLERK
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. On the………day of……..19……. , the plaintiff took E.F. into his employment as a clerk.
2. In consideration thereof, on the………day of…….19……………… ,the
defendant
agreed
with
plaintiff that if E.F. should not faithfully perform his duties as a clerk to the plaintiff, or should fail to account
to the plaintiff for all monies, evidences of debt or other property received by him for the use of the plaintiff,
the defendant would pay to the plaintiff whatever loss he might sustain by reason thereof, not
exceeding……..…rupees.
[Or, 2. In consideration thereof, the defendant by his bond of the same date bound himself to pay the
plaintiff the penal sum of………rupees, subjects to the condition that if E.F. should faithfully
perform his duties as clerk and cashier to the plaintiff and should justly account to the plaintiff for all
monies, evidences of debt or other property which should be at any time held by him in trust for the
plaintiff, the bond should be void.]
[Or,2. In consideration thereof, on the same date the defendant executed a bond in favour of the
plaintiff, and the original document is hereto annexed.]
3.
Between
the………..day
of………..19……… and
the………………………..day
of
19………,E.F. received money and other property, amounting to the value of……….rupees, for the use
of the plaintiff, for which sum he has not accounted to him, and the same still remains due and unpaid.
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No. 1, and Relief claimed.]
No. 19
BY TENANT AGAINST LANDLORD, WITH SPECIAL DAMAGE
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. On the……day of……19………., the defendant, by a registered instrument, let to the plaintiff [the
house No. ……..Street] for the term of……..years, contracting with the plaintiff, that he,
the plaintiff, and his legal representatives should quietly enjoy possession thereof for the said term.
2. All conditions were fulfilled and all things happened necessary to entitle the plaintiff to maintain
this suit.
3. On the…………day of………19……., during the said term, E.F. who was the lawful owner of the
said house, lawfully evicted the plaintiff therefrom, and still withholds the possession thereof from him.
4. The plaintiff was thereby [prevented from continuing the business of a tailor at the said place, was
compelled to expend……..rupees in moving, and lost the custom of G.H. and I. J. by such removal].
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No. 1, and Relief claimed.]