11
1*
*
*
*
*
3. Subordination of Courts.—For the purposes of this Code, the District Court is subordinate to the
High Court, and every Civil Court of a grade inferior to that of a District Court and every Court of Small
Causes is subordinate to the High Court and District Court.
4. Savings.—(1) In the absence of any specific provision to the Contrary, nothing in this Code shall
be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any special or local law now in force or any special jurisdiction or
power conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by or under any other law for the time
being in force.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the proposition contained in sub-section (1),
nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any remedy which a landholder or
landlord may have under any law for the time being in force for the recovery of rent of agricultural land
from the produce of such land.
5. Application of the Code to Revenue Courts.—(1) Where any Revenue Courts are governed by
the provisions of this Code in those matters of procedure upon which any special enactment applicable to
them is silent, the State Government 2*** may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that any
portions of those provisions which are not expressly made applicable by this Code shall not apply to those
Courts, or shall only apply to them with such modifications as the State Government 3* * * may prescribe.
(2) “Revenue Court” in sub-section (1) means a Court having jurisdiction under any local law to
entertain suits or other proceedings relating to the rent, revenue or profits of land used for
agricultural purposes, but does not include a Civil Court having original jurisdiction under this Code
to try such suits or proceedings as being suits or proceedings of a civil nature.
6. Pecuniary jurisdiction.—Save in so far as is otherwise expressly provided, nothing herein
contained shall operate to give any Court jurisdiction over suits the amount or value of the subject-matter
of which exceeds the pecuniary limits (if any) of its ordinary jurisdiction.
7. Provincial Small Cause Courts.—The following provisions shall not extend to Courts
constituted under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (9 of 1887) 4[or under the Berar Small
Cause Courts Law, 1905], or to Courts exercising the jurisdiction of a Court of Small Causes 5[under the
said Act or Law], 6[or to Courts in 7[any part of India to which the said Act does not extend] exercising a
corresponding jurisdiction that is to say.—
(a) so much of the body of the Code as relates to—
(i) suits excepted from the cognizance of a Court of Small Causes;
(ii) the execution of decrees in such suits;
(iii) the execution of decrees against immovable property; and
(b) the following sections, that is to say,—
section 9,
sections 91 and 92,
sections 94 and 95 8[so far as they authorize or relate to]—
(i) orders for the attachment of immovable property,
(ii) injunctions,
(iii) the appointment of a receiver of immovable property, or
1. Clause (21) omitted by Act 2 of 1951, s. 4 earlier ins. by the A.O. 1950.
2. The words “with the previous sanction of the G.G. in C”, omitted by Act 38 of 1920, s. 2 and the First Sch. Pt. I.
3. The words “with the sanction aforesaid” omitted by s. 2 and the First Sch., Pt. I, ibid.
4. Ins. by Act 4 of 1941, s. 2 and the Third Sch.
5. Subs. by s. 2 and the Third Sch., ibid., for “under that Act”.
6. Ins. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 5.
7. Subs. by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 2) Order, 1956, for “Part B States”.
8. Subs. by Act 1 of 1926, s. 3, for “so far as they relate to injunctions and interlocutory orders” .