272
transfer of the said shares to any person except the said…………………, the purchaser aforesaid, or from
receiving any dividends thereon; and you……………, Secretary of the said Corporation, from permitting
any such transfer or making any such payment to any person except the said…………… the purchaser
aforesaid.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this………..day of …………..19………
Judge.
No. 35
CERTIFICATE TO JUDGMENT-DEBTOR AUTHORIZING HIM TO MORTGAGE, LEASE OR SELL PROPERTY
(O.21, r. 83.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS in execution of the decree passed in the above suit an order was made on the…………day
of……………..19…… for the sale of the under-mentioned property of the judgment-debtor…
and whereas the Court has, on the application of the said judgment-debtor, postponed the said sale to enable
him to raise the amount of the decree by mortgage, lease or private sale of the said property or of some
part thereof:
This is to certify that the Court doth hereby authorize the said judgment-debtor to make the proposed
mortgage, lease or Sale within a period of……. from the date of this certificate; provided that all monies
payable under such mortgage, lease or sale shall be paid into this Court and not to the said judgment-
debtor.
Description of property
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this…………
day of………..19…..
Judge.
No. 36
NOTICE TO SHOW CAUSE WHY SALE SHOULD NOT BE SET ASIDE
(O. 21, rr. 90, 92.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS the under-mentioned property was sold on the……….day of…………… 19……. … in
execution of the decree passed in the above named suit, and whereas…………………,the decree-holder [or
judgment-debtor], has applied to this Court to set aside the sale of the said property on the ground of a
material irregularity [or fraud] in publishing [or conducting] the sale, namely, that…………….
Take notice that if you have any cause to show why the said application should not be granted,
you should appear with your proofs in this Court on the…………day of…………19 when the said
application will be heard and determined.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this…………day of………….19……
Description of property
Judge.
No. 37
NOTICE TO SHOW CAUSE WHY SALE SHOULD NOT BE SET ASIDE
(O.21, rr. 91,92.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS……………the purchaser of the under-mentioned property sold on the……………… day of
……19………, in execution of the decree passed in the above-named suit, has applied to this Court to set
aside the sale of the said property on the ground that…………… , the judgment-debtor, had no saleable
interest therein.