220
5. The deceased at the time of the execution of the said will and codicil did not know and approve
the contents thereof [or of the contents of the residuary clause in the said will, as the case may be].
6. The deceased made his true last will, dated the 1st January, 1873, and thereby appointed the
defendant sole executor thereof.
The defendant claims—
(1) that the Court will pronounce against the said will and codicil propounded by the plaintiff ;
(2) that the Court will decree probate of the will of the deceased, dated the 1st January, 1873, in
solemn form of law.
No. 16
PARTICULARS(O.6, r. 5.)
(Title of suit)
Particulars.—The following are the particulars of (here state the matters in respect of which particular
shave been ordered) delivered pursuant to the order of the of
(Here set out the particulars ordered in paragraphs if necessary).
APPENDIX B
PROCESS
No. 1.
SUMMONS FOR DISPOSAL OF SUIT (O. 5, rr.1, 5.)
(Title)
To
[Name, description and place of residence.]
WHEREAS
has instituted a suit against you for
you are hereby summoned to appear in this Court in person or by a pleader duly instructed, and able to
answer all material questions relating to the suit, or who shall be accompanied by some person; able to
answer all such questions, on the day
of 19,… at
o'clock in the noon, to answer the claim; and as the day fixed for your
appearance is appointed for the final disposal of the suit, you must be prepared to produce on that day
all the witnesses upon whose evidence and all the documents upon which you intend to rely in
support of your defence.
Take notice that, in default of your appearance on the day before mentioned, the suit will be heard
and determined in your absence.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19 .
Judge.
NOTICE—1. Should you apprehend your witnesses will not attend of their own accord, you can have
a summons from this Court to compel the attendance of any witness, and the production of any document
that you have a right to call upon the witness to produce, on applying to the Court and on depositing the
necessary expenses.
2. If you admit the claim, you should pay the money into Court together with the costs of the suit, to
avoid execution of the decree, which may be against your person or property, or both.