209
4. That the said piece of ground contained in fact only [five big has].
5. [Facts showing when the cause of action arose and that the Court has jurisdiction.]
6. The value of the subject-matter of the suit for the purpose of jurisdiction is rupees and for the
purpose of court-fees is rupees.
7. The plaintiff claims—
(1) rupees, with interest from the day of 19
(2) that the said agreement be delivered up and cancelled.
No. 35
AN INJUNCTION RESTRAINING, WASTE
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff; states as follows:—
1. The plaintiff is the absolute owner of [describe the property].
2. The defendant is in possession of the same under a lease from the plaintiff.
3. The defendant has [cut down a number of valuable trees, and threatens to cut down many more for the
purpose of sale] without the consent of the plaintiff.
4. [Facts showing when the cause of action arose and that the Court has jurisdiction.]
5. The value of the subject-matter of the suit for the purpose of jurisdiction is……..rupees and for the
purpose of court-fees is……..rupees.
6. The plaintiff claims that the defendant be restrained by injunction from committing or permitting any
further waste on the said premises.
[Pecuniary compensation may also be claimed.]
No. 36
INJUNCTION RESTRAINING NUISANCE
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. Plaintiff is, and at all the times hereinafter mentioned was, the absolute owner of [the house
No Street, Calcutta].
2. The defendant is, and at all the said times was, the absolute owner of [a plot of ground in the same
street ]
3. On the
day of 19
the defendant erected upon his said plot as laughter-
house, and still maintains the same; and from that day until the present time has continually caused cattle to be
brought and killed there [and has caused the blood and offal to be thrown into the street opposite the said house
of the plaintiff].
[4. In consequence the plaintiff has been compelled to abandon the said house, and has been unable to rent
the same.]
5. [Facts showing when the cause of action arose and that the Court has jurisdiction.]
6. The value of the subject-matter of the suit for the purpose of jurisdiction is………… rupees and for the
purpose of court-fees is rupees.
7. The plaintiff claims that the defendant be restrained by injunction from committing or permitting any
further nuisance.
No. 37
PUBLIC NUISANCE
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. The defendant has wrongly heaped up earth and stones on a public road known as………..Street at…..
so as to obstruct the passage of the public along the same and threatens and intends, unless restrained from so
doing, to continue and repeat the said wrongful act.
1[ *2. The plaintiff has obtained the leave of the Court for the institution of this suit.
*Not applicable where suit is instituted by the Advocate-General.]
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 93, for paragraph 2 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).