256
2. An account of the debts and liabilities of the said partnership;
3. An account of all dealings and transactions between the plaintiff and defendant, from the foot of
the settled account exhibited in this suit and marked (A), and not disturbing any subsequent settled
accounts.
And it is ordered that the goodwill of the business heretofore carried on by the plaintiff and defendant
as in the plaint mentioned, and the stock-in-trade, be sold on the premises, and that the ………….. 1may,
on the application of any of the parties, fix a reserved bidding for all or any of the lots at such sale, and
that either of the parties is to be at liberty to bid at the sale.
And it is ordered that the above accounts be taken, and all the other acts required to be done be
completed, before the..………..day of..……… and that the..………….1do certify the result of the
accounts, and that all other acts are completed, and have his certificate in that behalf ready for the
inspection of the parties on the……….day of ……… . …….And, lastly, it is ordered that this suit stand
adjourned for making a final decree to the ………. day of …………
No. 22
FINAL DECREE IN A SUIT FOR DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP AND THE TAKING OF PARTNERSHIP ACCOUNT
(Title)
IT is ordered that the fund now in Court, amounting to the sum of Rs. ……………., be applied as
follows:—
1. In payment of the debts due by the partnership set forth in the certificate of the
……… …..1amounting the whole to Rs. ……………
2. In payment of the costs of all parties in this suit, amounting to Rs. ……………….. [These
costs must be ascertained before the decree is drawn up.]
3. In payment of the sum of Rs. …………… to the plaintiff as his share of the partnership-assets,
of the sum of Rs. …………….. , being the residue of the said sum of Rs. …………. now in Court, to
the defendant as his share of the partnership-assets.
[Or, And that the remainder of the said sum of Rs. …………… be paid to the said plaintiff (or
defendant) in part payment of the sum of Rs. ……………… certified to be due to him in respect of
the partnership-accounts.]
4. And that the defendant [or plaintiff] do on or before the ………… day of …………. pay to the
plaintiff [or defendant] the sum of Rs. ………… being the balance of the said sum of Rs ………….
due to him, which will then remain due.
No. 23
DECREE FOR RECOVERY OF LANDAND MESNE PROFIT
(Title)
IT is hereby decreed as follows:—
1. That the defendant do put the plaintiff in possession of the property specified in the schedule
hereunto annexed.
2. That the defendant do pay to the plaintiff the sum of Rs. ……… with interest thereon at the
rate of ……….… per cent. per annum to the date of realization on account of mesne profits which
have accrued due prior to the institution of the suit.
Or
2. That an inquiry be made as to the amount of mesne profits which have accrued due prior to the
institution of the suit.
3. That an inquiry be made as to the amount mesne profits from the institution of the suit until
[the delivery of possession to the decree-holder] [the relinquishment of possession by the judgment-
1. Here insert name of proper officer.