288
No. 9
COMMISSION FOR A LOCALINVESTIGATION, OR TO EXAMINE ACCOUNTS
(O. 26, rr. 9,11.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS it is deemed requisite, for the purposes of this suit, that a commission for
should be issued; You are hereby appointed Commissioner for the purpose of
Process to compel the attendance before you of any witnesses, or for the production of any documents
whom or which you may desire to examine or inspect, will be issued by any Court having jurisdiction on your
application.
A sum of Rs , being your fee in the above, is herewith forwarded.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of
19.
Judge.
No. 10
COMMISSION TO MAKE A PARTITION
(O. 26, r. 13.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS it is deemed requisite for the purposes of this suit that a commission should be issued to make
the partition or separation of the property specified in, and according to the rights as declared in, the decree of
this Court, dated the
day of 19 ;You are hereby
appointed Commissioner for the said purpose and are directed to make such inquiry as may be necessary, to
divide the said property according to the best of your skill and judgment in the shares set out in the said decree,
and to allot such shares to the several parties. You are hereby authorized to award sums to be paid to any party
by any other party for the purpose of equalizing the value of the shares.
Process to compel the attendance before you of any witness, or for the production of any documents,
whom or which you may desire to examine or inspect, will be issued by any Court having jurisdiction on your
application.
A sum of Rs.
, being your fee in the above, is herewith forwarded.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19.
Judge.
1[No.11
NOTICE TO CERTIFICATED, NATURAL, OR, de facto GUARDIAN
(O. XXXII, r. 3.)
(Title)
(Certificated/Natural/de facto Guardian)
To
WHEREAS an application has been presented on the part of the plaintiff2 /on behalf of the minor
defendant 2in the above suit for the appointment of a guardian for the suit for the minor defendant
,
you
(insert the name of the guardian appointed or declared by Court, or natural guardian, or the person in whose
care the minor is) are hereby required to take notice that unless you appear before this Court on or before the
day appointed for the hearing of the case and stated in the appended summons, and express your consent to act
as guardian for the suit for the minor, the Court will proceed to appoint some other person to act as a guardian
for the minor, for the purposes of the said suit.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19.
Judge.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 96, for Form 11 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Strike off the words which are not applicable