146
(d) any other suit in which the decree passed may, by virtue of the provisions of this Code or of
any other law for the time being in force, bind any person who is not named as party to the suit.]
4. Proceedings in execution of decrees not affected.—Nothing in this Order shall apply to any
proceedings in execution of a decree or order.
ORDER XXIV
Payment into Court
1. Deposit by defendant of amount in satisfaction of claim.—The defendant in any suit to recover a
debt or damages may, at any stage of the suit, deposit in Court such sum of money as he considers a
satisfaction in full of the claim.
2. Notice of deposit.—Notice of the deposit shall be given through the Court by the defendant to the
plaintiff, and the amount of the deposit shall (unless the Court otherwise directs) be paid to the plaintiff
on his application.
3. Interest on deposit not allowed to plaintiff after notice.—No interest shall be allowed to the
plaintiff on any sum deposited by the defendant from the date of the receipt of such notice, whether the
sum deposited is in full of the claim or falls short thereof.
4. Procedure where plaintiff accepts deposit as satisfaction in part.—(1) Where the plaintiff
accepts such amount as satisfaction in part only of his claim, he may prosecute his suit for the balance;
and, if the Court decides that the deposit by the defendant was a full satisfaction of the plaintiff's claim,
the plaintiff shall pay the costs of the suit incurred after the deposit and the costs incurred previous
thereto, so far as they were caused by excess in the plaintiff's claim.
(2) Procedure where he accepts it as satisfaction in full.—Where the plaintiff accepts such amount as
satisfaction in full of his claim, he shall present to the Court a statement to that effect, and such statement
shall be filed and the Court shall pronounce judgment accordingly; and, in directing by whom the costs of
each party are to be paid, the Court shall consider which of the parties is most to blame for the litigation.
Illustrations
(a) A owes B Rs. 100. B sues A for the amount, having made no demand for payment and having no reason to believe that
the delay caused by making a demand would place him at a disadvantage. On the plaint being filed, A pays the money into Court,
B accepts it in full satisfaction of his claim, but the Court should not allow him any costs, the litigation being presumably
groundless on his part.
(b) B sues A under the circumstances mentioned in illustration (a). On the plaint being filed, A disputes the claim.
Afterwards A pays the money into Court. B accepts in full satisfaction of his claim. The Court should also give B his cost of suit.
A's conduct having shown that the litigation was necessary.
(c) A owes B Rs. 100, and is willing to pay him that sum without suit B claims Rs. 150 and sues A for that amount. On the plaint
being filed, A pays Rs. 100 into Court and disputes only his liability to pay the remaining Rs. 50. B accepts the Rs. 100 in full satisfaction of
his claim. The Court should order him to pay A's costs.
ORDER XXV
Security for Costs
1[1. When security for costs may be required from plaintiff.—(1) At any stage of a suit, the Court
may, either of its own motion or on the application of any defendant, order the plaintiff, for reasons to be
recorded, to give within the time fixed by it security for the payment of all costs incurred and likely to be
incurred by any defendant:
Provided that such an order shall be made in all cases in which it appears to the Court that a sole
plaintiff is, or (when there are more plaintiffs than one) that all the plaintiffs are, residing out of India and
that such plaintiff does not possess or that no one of such plaintiffs possesses any sufficient immovable
property within India other than the property in suit.
1. Subs. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 14, rule 1.