86
(c) the name, description and place of residence of the defendant, so far as they can be
ascertained;
(d) where the plaintiff or the defendant is a minor or a person of unsound mind, a statement to
that effect;
(e) the facts constituting the cause of action and when it arose;
(f) the facts showing that the Court has jurisdiction;
(g) the relief which the plaintiff claims;
(h) where the plaintiff has allowed a set-off or relinquished a portion of his claim, the amount so
allowed or relinquished; and
(i) a statement of the value of the subject-matter of the suit for the purposes of jurisdiction and of
court-fees, so far as the case admits.
2. In money suits.—Where the plaintiff seeks the recovery of money, the plaint shall state the precise
amount claimed :
But where the plaintiff sues for mesne profits, or for an amount which will be found due to him on
taking unsettled accounts between him and the defendant, 1[or for movables in the possession of the
defendant, or for debts of which the value he cannot, after the exercise of reasonable diligence, estimate,
the plaint shall state approximately the amount or value sued for.]
3.Where the subject-matter of the suit is immovable property.—Where the subject-matter of the
suit is immovable property, the plaint shall contain a description of the property sufficient to identify it,
and, in case such property can be identified by boundaries or numbers in a record of settlement or survey,
the plaint shall specify such boundaries or numbers.
4. When plaintiff sues as representative.—Where the plaintiff sues in a representative character the
plaint shall show not only that he has an actual existing interest in the subject-matter, but that he has taken
the steps (if any) necessary to enable him to institute a suit concerning it.
5. Defendant's interest and liability to be shown.—The plaint shall show that the defendant is or
claims to be interested in the subject-matter, and that he is liable to be called upon to answer the plaintiff's
demand.
6. Grounds of exemption from limitation law.—Where the suit is instituted after the expiration of
the period prescribed by the law of limitation, the plaint shall show the ground upon which exemption
from such law is claimed :
2[Provided that the Court may permit the plaintiff to claim exemption from the law of limitation on any
ground not set out in the plaint, if such ground is not inconsistent with the grounds set out in the plaint.]
7. Relief to be specifically stated.—Every plaint shall state specifically the relief which the plaintiff
claims either simply or in the alternative, and it shall not be necessary to ask for general or other relief
which may always be given as the Court may think just to the same extent as if it had been asked for. And
the same rule shall apply to any relief claimed by the defendant in his written statement.
8. Relief founded on separate grounds.—Where the plaintiff seeks relief in respect of several
distinct claims or causes of action founded upon separate and distinct grounds, they shall be stated as far
as may be separately and distinctly.
3[9. Procedure on admitting plaint.—Where the Court orders that the summons be served on the
defendants in the manner provided in rule 9 of Order V, it will direct the plaintiff to present as many
copies of the plaint on plain paper as there are defendants within seven days from the date of such order
along with requisite fee for service of summons on the defendants.]
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 57, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. The proviso added by s. 57, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 8, for rule 9 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).