102
ascertain upon what material propositions of fact or of law the parties are at variance, and shall thereupon
proceed to frame and record the issues on which the right decision of the case appears to depend.
(6) Nothing is this rule requires the Court to frame and record issued where the defendant at the first
hearing of the suit makes no defence.
1[2. Court to pronounce judgment on all issues.—(1) Notwithstanding that a case may be disposed
of on a preliminary issue, the Court shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), pronounce judgment
on all issues.
(2) Where issues both of law and of fact arise in the same suit, and the Court is of opinion that the case or
any part thereof may be disposed of on an issue of law only, it may try that issue first if the issue relates to—
(a) the jurisdiction of the Court, or
(b) a bar to the suit created by any law for the time being in force,
and for that purpose may, if it thinks fit, postpone the settlement of the other issues until after that issue
has been determined, and may deal with the suit in accordance with the decision on that issue.]
3. Materials from which issues may be framed.—The Court may frame the issues from all or any
of the following materials:—
(a) allegations made on oath by the parties, or by any persons present on their behalf, or made by
the pleaders of such parties;
(b) allegations made in the pleadings or in answers to interrogatories delivered in the suit;
(c) the contents of documents produced by either party.
4. Court may examine witnesses or documents before framing issues.—Where the Court is of
opinion that the issues cannot be correctly framed without the examination of some person not before the
Court or without the inspection of some document not produced in the suit, it 2[may adjourn the framing
of issues to a day not later than seven days] and may (subject to any law for the time being in force)
compel the attendance of any person or the production of any document by the person in whose
possession or power it is by summons or other process.
3[5. Power to amend and strike out, issues.—(1) The Court may at any time before passing a decree
amend the issues or frame additional issues on such terms as it thinks fit, and all such amendments or
additional issues as may be necessary for determining the matters in controversy between the parties shall
be so made or framed.
(2) The Court may also, at any time before passing a decree, strike out any issues that appear to it to
be wrongly framed or introduced.]
6. Questions of fact or law may by agreement be stated in form of issues.—(1) Where the parties
to a suit are agreed as to the question of fact or of law to be decided between them, they may state the
same in the form of an issue, and enter into an agreement in writing that, upon the finding of the Court in
the affirmative or the negative or such issue,—
(a) a sum of money specified in the agreement or to be ascertained by the Court, or in such manner
as the Court may direct, shall be paid by one of the parties to the other of them, or that one of them be
declared entitled to some right or subject some liability specified in the agreement;
(b) some property specified in the agreement and in dispute in the suit shall be delivered by one of
the parties to the other of them, or as that other may direct; or
(c) one or more of the parties shall do or abstain from doing some particular act specified in the
agreement and relating to the matter in dispute.
1. Subs. by ibid., s. 64, for rule 2 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 24, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
3. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 11, for rule 5 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).