255
No. 19
PRELIMINARY DECREE IN AN ADMINISTRATION-SUIT BY A LEGATEE, WHERE AN EXECUTOR IS HELD
PERSONALLY LIABLE FOR THE PAYMENT OF LEGACIES
(Title)
1. IT is declared that the defendant is personally liable to pay the legacy of Rs. ………… bequeathed
to the plaintiff;
2. And it is ordered that an account be taken of what is due for principal and interest on the said
legacy;
3. And it is also ordered that the defendant do, within …………….. weeks after the date of the
certificate of the ……..…… 1, pay to the plaintiff the amount of what the ………………. *shall certify to
be due for principal and interest;
4. And it is ordered that the defendant do pay the plaintiff his costs of suit, the same to be taxed in
case the parties differ.
No. 20
FINAL DECREE IN AN ADMINISTRATION-SUIT BY NEXT-OF-KIN
(Title)
1. LET the ……………..1of the said Court tax the costs of the “plaintiff and defendant in this suit, and
let the amount of the said plaintiff’s costs, when so taxed, be paid by the defendant to the plaintiff out of
the sum of Rs.…………….,the balance, by the said certificate found to be due from the said defendant on
account of the personal estate of E.F., the intestate, within one week after the taxation of the said costs by
the said. …………………1and let the defendant retain for her own use out of such sum her costs, when
taxed.
2. And it is ordered that the residue of the said sum of Rs..…………………after payment of the
plaintiff’s and defendant’s costs as aforesaid, be paid and applied by defendant as follows:—
(a) Let the defendant, within one week after the taxation of the said costs by the1 …………….as
aforesaid, pay one-third share of the said residue to the plaintiff’sA.B., and C.D., his wife, in her
right as the sister and one of the next-of-kin of the said E.F., the intestate.
(b) Let the defendant retain for her own use one other third share of said residue, as the mother
and one of the next-of-kin of the said E.F., the intestate.
(c) And let the defendant, within one week after the taxation of the said costs by the1…………..
as aforesaid, pay the remaining one-third share of the said residue to G. H., as the brother and the
other next- of-kin of the said E.F. the intestate.
No. 21
PRELIMINARY DECREE IN A SUIT FOR DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP AND THE TAKING OFPARTNERSHIP
ACCOUNTS
(Title)
IT is declared that the proportionate shares of the parties in the partnership are as follows:—
It is declared that this partnership shall stand dissolved [or shall be deemed to have been dissolved] as
from the ………….. day of ………… and it is ordered that the dissolution thereof as from that day be
advertised in the …………………. Gazette, etc.
And it is ordered that ……………… be the receiver of the partnership-estate and effects in this suit
and do get in all the outstanding book-debts and claims of the partnership.
And it is ordered that the following accounts be taken:—
1. An account of the credits, property and effects now belonging to the said partnership;
1. Here insert name of proper officer.