297
APPENDIX-III
THE COMMERCIAL COURTS, COMMERCIAL DIVISION AND
COMMERCIAL APPELLATE DIVISION OF HIGH COURTS ACT , 2015
NO. 4 OF 2016
[31st December, 2015.]
An Act to provide for the constitution of Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and
Commercial Appellate Division in the High Courts for adjudicating commercial disputes
of specified value and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title, extent and commencement. — (1) This Act may be called the Commercial Courts,
Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, 2015.
(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
(3) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 23rd day of October, 2015.
2. Definitions. —(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,––
(a) “Commercial Appellate Division” means the Commercial Appellate Division in a High
Court constituted under sub-section (1) of section 5;
(b) “Commercial Court” means the Commercial Court constituted under sub-section (1) of
section 3;
(c) “commercial dispute” means a dispute arising out of––
(i) ordinary transactions of merchants, bankers, financiers and traders such as those relating
to mercantile documents, including enforcement and interpretation of such documents;
(ii) export or import of merchandise or services;
(iii) issues relating to admiralty and maritime law;
(iv) transactions relating to aircraft, aircraft engines, aircraft equipment and helicopters,
including sales, leasing and financing of the same;
(v) carriage of goods;
(vi) construction and infrastructure contracts, including tenders;
(vii) agreements relating to immovable property used exclusively in trade or commerce;
(viii) franchising agreements;
(ix) distribution and licensing agreements;
(x) management and consultancy agreements;
(xi) joint venture agreements;
(xii) shareholders agreements;
(xiii) subscription and investment agreements pertaining to the services industry including
outsourcing services and financial services;
(xiv) mercantile agency and mercantile usage;
(xv) partnership agreements;
(xvi) technology development agreements;