84
9. Effect of document to be stated.—Wherever the contents of any document are material, it shall
be sufficient in any pleading to state the effect thereof as briefly as possible, without setting out the whole
or any part thereof, unless the precise words of the document or any part thereof are material.
10. Malice, knowledge, etc.—Wherever it is material to allege malice, fradulent intention,
knowledge or other condition of the mind of any person, it shall be sufficient to allege the same as a fact
without setting out the circumstances from which the same is to be inferred.
11. Notice.—Wherever it is material to allege notice to any person of any fact, matter or thing, it shall
be sufficient to allege such notice as a fact, unless the form or the precise terms of such notice, or the
circumstances from which such notice is to be inferred, are material.
12. Implied contract, or relation.—Whenever any contract or any relation between any persons is
to be implied from a series of letters or conversations or otherwise from a number of circumstances, it
shall be sufficient to allege such contract or relation as a fact, and to refer generally to such letters,
conversations or circumstances without setting them out in detail. And if in such case the person so
pleading desires to rely in the alternative upon more contracts or relations than one as to be implied from
such circumstances, he may state the same in the alternative.
13. Presumptions of law.—Neither party need in any pleading allege any matter of fact which the
law presumes in his favour or as to which the burden of proof lies upon the other side unless the same has
first been specifically denied (e.g., consideration for a bill of exchange where the plaintiff sues only on
the bill and not for the consideration as a substantive ground of claim).
14. Pleading to be signed.—Every pleading shall be signed by the party and his pleader (if any) :
Provided that where a party pleading is, by reason of absence or for other good cause, unable to sign the
pleading, it may be signed by any person duly authorized by him to sign the same or to sue or defend on
his behalf
1[14A. Address for service of notice.—(1) Every pleading, when filed by a party, shall be accompanied by
a statement in the prescribed form, signed as provided in rule 14, regarding the address of the party.
(2) Such address may, from time to time, be changed by lodging in Court a form duly filled up and
stating the new address of the party and accompanied by a verified petition.
(3) The address furnished in the statement made under sub-rule (1) shall be called the “registered
address” of the party, and shall, until duly changed as aforesaid, be deemed to be the address of the party
for the purpose of service of all processes in the suit or in any appeal from any decree or order therein
made and for the purpose of execution, and shall hold good, subject as aforesaid, for a period of two years
after the final determination of the cause or matter.
(4) Service of any process may be effected upon a party at his registered address in all respects as
though such party resided thereat.
(5) Where the registered address of a party is discovered by the Court to be incomplete. false or
fictitious, the Court may, either on its own motion, or on the application of any party, order—
(a) in the case where such registered address was furnished by a plaintiff, stay of the suit, or
(b) in the case where such registered address was furnished by a defendant, his defence be
struck out and he be placed in the same position as if he had not put up any defence.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 56 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).