313
8. Power to impose costs. The Court may make an order for payment of costs in an application
for summary judgment in accordance with the provisions of sections 35 and 35A of the Code.’.
6. Omission of Order XV.— Order XV of the Code shall be omitted.
7. Insertion of Order XV-A.— After Order XV of the Code, the following Order shall be
inserted, namely:—
“ORDER XV-A
CASE MANAGEMENT HEARING
1. First Case Management Hearing.— The Court shall hold the first Case Management Hearing,
not later than four weeks from the date of filing of affidavit of admission or denial of documents by
all parties to the suit.
2. Orders to be passed in a Case Management Hearing. — In a Case Management Hearing,
after hearing the parties, and once it finds that there are issues of fact and law which require to be
tried, the Court may pass an order––
(a) framing the issues between the parties in accordance with Order XIV of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 after examining pleadings, documents and documents produced before it, and on
examination conducted by the Court under Rule 2 of Order X, if required;
(b) listing witnesses to be examined by the parties;
(c) fixing the date by which affidavit of evidence to be filed by parties;
(d) fixing the date on which evidence of the witnesses of the parties to be recorded;
(e) fixing the date by which written arguments are to be filed before the Court by the parties;
(f) fixing the date on which oral arguments are to be heard by the Court; and
(g) setting time limits for parties and their advocates to address oral arguments.
3. Time limit for the completion of a trail. —In fixing dates or setting time limits for the
purposes of Rule 2 of this Order, the Court shall ensure that the arguments are closed not later than six
months from the date of the first Case Management Hearing.
4. Recording of oral evidence on a day-to-day basis. —The Court shall, as far as possible,
ensure that the recording of evidence shall be carried on, on a day-to-day basis until the cross-
examination of all the witnesses is complete.
5. Case management hearings during a trail. — The Court may, if necessary, also hold Case
Management Hearings anytime during the trial to issue appropriate orders so as to ensure adherence
by the parties to the dates fixed under Rule 2 and facilitate speedy disposal of the suit.
6. Powers of the Court in a Case Management Hearing. — (1) In any Case Management
Hearing held under this Order, the Court shall have the power to—
(a) prior to the framing of issues, hear and decide any pending application filed by the parties
under Order XIII-A;
(b) direct parties to file compilations of documents or pleadings relevant and necessary for
framing issues;
(c) extend or shorten the time for compliance with any practice, direction or Court order if it
finds sufficient reason to do so;
(d) adjourn or bring forward a hearing if it finds sufficient reason to do so;
(e) direct a party to attend the Court for the purposes of examination under Rule 2 of Order X;
(f) consolidate proceedings;
(g) strike off the name of any witness or evidence that it deems irrelevant to the issues framed;