235
No. 2
SIMPLE MONEY DECREE
(Section 34)
(Title)
Claim for
THIS suit coming on this day for final disposal before in the presence of
for the plaintiff and of for the defendant; It is ordered that the do
pay to the the sum of Rs with interest thereon at the rate of per cent.
per annum from to the date of realization of the said sum and do also pay
Rs , the costs of this suit, with interest thereon at the rate of……..per cent. per annum from
this date to the date of realization.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19 .
Judge.
Costs of Suit
Plaintiff
Defendant
1. Stamp for plaint
2. Do. for power
3. Do. for exhibit
4. Pleader's fee on Rs
5. Subsistence for witnesses
6. Commissioner’s fee
7. Service of process
Rs.
A.
P.
Stamp for power
Do. for petition
Pleader’s fee
Subsistence for witnesses
Service of process
Commissioner’s
Rs.
A.
P.
Total
Total
1[No.3
PRELIMINARY DECREE FOR FORECLOSURE
(Order XXXIV, rule 2.—Where accounts are directed to be taken.)
(Title)
This suit coming on this day, etc.; It is hereby ordered and decreed that it be
referred to as the Commissioner to take the accounts following:—
(i) an account of what is due on this date to the plaintiff for principal and interest on his
mortgage mentioned in the plaint (such interest to be computed at the rate payable on the principal
or where no such rate is fixed, at six per cent. per annum or at such rate as the Court deems
reasonable);
(ii) an account of the income of the mortgaged property received up to this date by the plaintiff or
by any other person by the order or for the use of the plaintiff or which without the wilful default of
the plaintiff or such person might have been so received;
(iii) an account of all sums of money properly incurred by the plaintiff up to this date for costs,
charges and expenses (other than the costs of the suit) in respect of the mortgage-security, together
with interest thereon (such interest to be computed at the rate agreed between the parties, or, failing
such rate, at the same rate as is payable on the principal, or, failing both such rates, at nine per cent.
per annum);
1. Subs. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 8 and Sch., for the original forms 3 to 11.