312
(f) the reply must state why, in light of the evidence or material on record if any, the Court
should not proceed to summary judgment.
5. Evidence for hearing of summary judgment. — (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Order, if
the respondent in an application for summary judgment wishes to rely on additional documentary
evidence during the hearing, the respondent must:—
(a) file such documentary evidence; and
(b) serve copies of such documentary evidence on every other party to the application at least
fifteen days prior to the date of the hearing. Evidence for hearing of summary judgment.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Order, if the applicant for summary judgment wishes to rely
on documentary evidence in reply to the defendant’s documentary evidence, the applicant must:—
(a) file such documentary evidence in reply; and
(b) serve a copy of such documentary evidence on the respondent at least five days prior to the
date of the hearing.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, sub-rules (1) and (2) shall not require documentary
evidence to be:—
(a) filed if such documentary evidence has already been filed; or
(b) served on a party on whom it has already been served.
6. Orders that may be made by Court. — (1) On an application made under this Order, the
Court may make such orders that it may deem fit in its discretion including the following:—
(a) judgment on the claim;
(b) conditional order in accordance with Rule 7 mentioned hereunder;
(c) dismissing the application;
(d) dismissing part of the claim and a judgment on part of the claim that is not dismissed;
(e) striking out the pleadings (whether in whole or in part); or
(f) further directions to proceed for case management under Order XV-A.
(2) Where the Court makes any of the orders as set forth in sub-rule (1) (a) to (f), the Court shall
record its reasons for making such order.
7. Conditional order. — (1) Where it appears to the Court that it is possible that a claim or
defence may succeed but it is improbable that it shall do so, the Court may make a conditional order
as set forth in Rule 6 (1) (b).
(2) Where the Court makes a conditional order, it may:—
(a) make it subject to all or any of the following conditions:—
(i) require a party to deposit a sum of money in the Court;
(ii) require a party to take a specified step in relation to the claim or defence, as the case
may be;
(iii) require a party, as the case may be, to give such security or provide such surety for
restitution of costs as the Court deems fit and proper;
(iv) impose such other conditions, including providing security for restitution of losses that
any party is likely to suffer during the pendency of the suit, as the Court may deem fit in its
discretion; and
(b) specify the consequences of the failure to comply with the conditional order, including
passing a judgment against the party that have not complied with the conditional order.