185
(4) Where, in any case in which any respondent has under this rule filed a memorandum of objection, the
original appeal is withdrawn or is dismissed for default, the objection so filed may nevertheless be heard and
determined after such notice to the other parties as the Court thinks fit.
(5) The provisions relating to appeals by indigent persons shall, so far as they can be made applicable,
apply to an objection under this rule.
23. Remand of case by Appellate Court.—Where the Court from whose decree an appeal is preferred
has disposed of the suit upon a preliminary point and the decree is reversed in appeal, the Appellate Court may,
if it thinks fit, by order remand the case, and may further direct what issue or issues shall be tried in the case so
remanded, and shall send a copy of its judgment and order to the Court from whose decree the appeal is
preferred, which directions to re-admit the suit under its original number in the register of civil suits, and
proceed to determine the suit; and the evidence (if any) recorded during the original trial shall, subject to all
just exceptions, be evidence during the trial after remand.
1[23A. Remand in other cases.—Where the Court from whose decree an appeal is preferred has
disposed of the case otherwise than on a preliminary point, and the decree is reversed in appeal and a re-
trial is considered necessary, the Appellate Court shall have the same powers as it has under rule 23.
24. Where evidence on record sufficient Appellate Court may determine case finally.—Where the
evidence upon the record is sufficient to enable the Appellate Court to pronounce judgment, the Appellate
Court may, after resettling the issues, if necessary, finally determine the suit, notwithstanding that the
judgment of the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has proceeded wholly upon some ground
other than that on which the Appellate Court proceeds.
25. Where Appellate Court may frame issues and refer them for trial to Court whose decree
appealed from.—Where the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has omitted to frame or try
any issue, or to determine any question of fact, which appears to the Appellate Court essential to the right
decision of the suit upon the merits, the Appellate Court may, if necessary, frame issues, and refer the
same for trial to the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred, and in such case shall direct such
Court to take the additional evidence required;
and such Court shall proceed to try such issues, and shall return the evidence to the Appellate Court
together with its findings thereon and the reasons therefor 1[within such time as may be fixed by the
Appellate Court or extended by it from time to time].
26. Findings and evidence to be put on record. Objections to findings.—(1)Such evidence and
findings shall form part of the record in the suit; and either party may, within a time to be fixed by the
Appellate Court, present a memorandum of objections to any finding.
(2) Determination of appeal.—After the expiration of the period so fixed for presenting such
memorandum the Appellate Court shall proceed to determine the appeal.
1[26A. Order of remand to mention date of next hearing.—Where the Appellate Court remands a
case under rule 23 or rule 23A, or frames issues and refers them for trial under rule 25, it shall fix a date
for the appearance of the parties before the Court from whose decree the appeal was preferred for the
purpose of receiving the directions of that Court as to further proceedings in the suit.]
27. Production of additional evidence in Appellate Court.—(1) The parties to an appeal shall not be
entitled to produce additional evidence, whether oral or documentary, in the Appellate Court. But if—
(a) the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has refused to admit evidence which
ought to have been admitted, or
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 87 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).