110
(3C) No adjournment shall be granted for the purpose of filing the written arguments unless the
Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing, considers it necessary to grant such adjournment.
(3D) The Court shall fix such time-limits for the oral arguments by either of the parties in a case, as it
thinks fit.]
1*
*
*
*
*
3. Evidence where several issues.—Where there are several issues, the burden of proving some of
which lies on the other party, the party beginning may, at his option, either produce his evidence on those
issues or reserve it by way of answer to the evidence produced by the other party; and, in the latter case,
the party beginning may produce evidence on those issues after the other party has produced all his
evidence, and the other party may then reply specially on the evidence so produced by the party
beginning; but the party beginning will then be entitled to reply generally on the whole case.
2[3A. Party to appear before other witnesses.—Where a party himself wishes to appear as a
witness, he shall so appear before any other witness on his behalf has been examined, unless the Court,
for reasons to be recorded, permits him to appear as his own witness at a later stage.]
3[4. Recording of evidence.—(1) In every case, the examination-in-chief of a witness shall be on
affidavit and copies thereof shall be supplied to the opposite party by the party who calls him for
evidence:
Provided that where documents are filed and the parties rely upon the documents, the proof and admis-
sibility of such documents which are filed along with affidavit shall be subject to the orders of the Court.
(2) The evidence (cross-examination and re-examination) of the witness in attendance, whose
evidence (examination-in-chief) by affidavit has been furnished to the Court, shall be taken either by the
Court or by the Commissioner appointed by it:
Provided that the Court may, while appointing a commission under this sub-rule, consider taking into
account such relevant factors as it thinks fit.
(3) The Court or the Commissioner, as the case may be, shall record evidence either in writing or
mechanically in the presence of the Judge or of the Commissioner, as the case maybe, and where such
evidence is recorded by the Commissioner he shall return such evidence together with his report in writing
signed by him to the Court appointing him and the evidence taken under it shall form part of the record of the
suit.
(4) The Commissioner may record such remarks as it thinks material respecting the demeanour of any
witness while under examination:
Provided that any objection raised during the recording of evidence before the Commissioner shall be
recorded by him and decided by the Court at the stage of arguments.
(5) The report of the Commissioner shall be submitted to the Court appointing the commission within
sixty days from the date of issue of the commission unless the Court for reasons to be recorded in writing
extends the time.
(6) The High Court or the District Judge, as the case may be, shall prepare a panel of Commissioners
to record the evidence under this rule.
(7) The Court may by general or special order fix the amount to be paid as remuneration for the
services of the Commissioner.
(8) The provisions of rules 16, 16A, 17 and 18 of Order XXVI, in so far as they are applicable, shall
apply to the issue, execution and return of such commission under this rule.]
1. Sub-rule (4) omitted by Act 46 of 1999, s. 27 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 69 (w.e.f. 1.2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 12, for rule 4 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).