81
proceedings, and may make such further enquiry in the matter as it thinks fit; and shall either declare that
the summons has been duly served or order such service as it thinks fit.
1*
*
*
*
*
20. Substituted service.—(1) Where the Court is satisfied that there is reason to believe that the
defendant is keeping out of the way for the purpose of avoiding service, or that for any other reason the
summons cannot be served in the ordinary way, the Court shall order the summons to be served by
affixing a copy thereof in some conspicuous place in the Court-house, and also upon some conspicuous
part of the house (if any) in which the defendant is known to have last resided or carried on business or
personally worked for gain, or in such other manner as the Court thinks fit.
2[(1A)Where the Court acting under sub-rule (1) orders service by an advertisement in a newspaper,
the newspaper shall be a daily newspaper circulating in the locality in which the defendant is last known
to have actually and voluntarily resided, carried on business or personally worked for gain.]
(2) Effect of substituted service.—Service substituted by order of the Court shall be as effectual as if
it had been made on the defendant personally.
(3) Where service substituted, time for appearance to be fixed.—Where service is substituted by
order of the Court, the Court shall fix such time for the appearance of the defendant as the case may
require.
3[20A. Service of summons by post.] Rep. by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976
(104 of1976), s. 55 (w.e.f.1-2-1977)].
21. Service of summons where defendant resides within jurisdiction of another Court.—A
summons may be sent by the Court by which it is issued, whether within or without the State, either by
one of its officers 4[or by post or by such courier service as may be approved by the High Court, by fax
message or by Electronic Mail service or by any other means as may be provided by the rules made by
the High Court.] to any Court (not being the High Court) having jurisdiction in the place where the
defendant resides.
22. Service within presidency towns of summons issued by Courts outside.—Where a summons
issued by any Court established beyond the limits of the towns of Calcutta, Madras 5[and Bombay] is to
be served within any such limits, it shall be sent to the Court of Small Causes within whose jurisdiction it
is to be served.
23. Duty of Court to which summons is sent.—The Court to which a summons is sent under rule 21 or
rule 22 shall, upon receipt thereof, proceed as if it had been issued by such Court and shall then return the
summons to the Court of issue, together with the record (if any) of its proceedings with regard thereto.
24. Service on defendant in prison.—Where the defendant is confined in a prison, the summons
shall be delivered or sent 4[or by post or by such courier service as may be approved by the High Court,
by fax message or by Electronic Mail service or by any other means as may be provided by the rules
made by the High Court] to the officer in charge of the prison for service on the defendant.
25. Service where defendant resides out of India and has no agent.—Where the defendant resides
out of 6[India] and has no agent in 6[India] empowered to accept service, the summons shall be addressed
to the defendant at the place where he is residing and sent to him 4[or by post or by such courier service as
may be approved by the High Court, by fax message or by Electronic Mail service or by any other means
as may be provided by the rules made by the High Court], if there is postal communication between such
place and the place where the Court is situate :
1. Rule 19A omitted by Act 46 of 1999, s. 15 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 55 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 14.
4. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 15, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Bombay and Rangoon”.
6. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3, for “the State”.