72
APPENDICES TO THE FIRST SCHEDULE
Forms
A.—PLEADINGS.
1. Titles of suits.
2. Description of parties in particular cases.
3.Plaints.
4. Written statements.
B.—PROCESS.
C.—DISCOVERY, INSPECTIONAND ADMISSION.
D.—DECREES.
E.—EXECUTION.
F.—SLPPLEMENTAL PROCEEDINGS.
G.—APPEAL, REFERENCE AND REVIEW.
H.—MISCELLANEOUS.
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
ORDER I
Parties to Suits
1[1. Who may be joined as plaintiffs.—All persons may be joined in one suit as plaintiffs where—
(a)any right to relief in respect of, or arising out of, the same act or transaction or series of acts or
transactions is alleged to exist in such persons, whether jointly, severally or in the alternative; and
(b)if such persons brought separate suits, any common question of law or fact would
arise.]
2. Power of Court to order separate trial.—Where it appears to the Court that any joinder of
plaintiffs may embarrass or delay the trial of the suit, the Court may put the plaintiffs to their election or
order separate trials or make such other order as may be expedient.
1[3. Who may be joined as defendants.—All persons may be joined in one suit as defendants
where—
(a) any right to relief in respect of, or arising out of, the same act or transaction or series of acts or
transactions is alleged to exist against such persons, whether jointly, severally or in the alternative;
and
(b) if separate suits were brought against such persons, any common question of law or fact
would arise.]
2[3A. Power to order separate trials where joinder of defendants may embarrass or delay
trial.—Where it appears to the Court that any joinder of defendants may embarrass or delay the trial of
the suit, the Court may order separate trials or make such other order as may be expedient in the interests
of justice.]
4. Court may give judgment for or against one or more of joint parties.—Judgment may be given
without any amendment —
(a) for such one or more of the plaintiffs as may be found to be entitled to relief, for such relief
as he or they may be entitled to;
(b) against such one or more of the defendants as may be found to be liable, according to their
respective liabilities.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 52, for rule 1 and 3 respectively (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 52, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).