302
CHAPTER VI
AMENDMENTS TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE, 1908
16. Amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in its a (1) The provisions of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 shall, in their application to any suit in respect of a commercial dispute of a
Specified Value, stand amended in the manner as specified in the Schedule.
(2) The Commercial Division and Commercial Court shall follow the provisions of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended by this Act, in the trial of a suit in respect of a commercial dispute
of a Specified Value.
(3) Where any provision of any Rule of the jurisdictional High Court or any amendment to the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, by the State Government is in conflict with the provisions of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended by this Act, the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure as
amended by this Act shall prevail.
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS
17. Collection and disclosure of data by Commercial Courts, Commercial Divisions and
Commercial Appellate Divisions. –– The statistical data regarding the number of suits, applications,
appeals or writ petitions filed before the Commercial Court, Commercial Division, or Commercial
Appellate Division, as the case may be, the pendency of such cases, the status of each case, and the
number of cases disposed of, shall be maintained and updated every month by each Commercial
Court, Commercial Division, Commercial Appellate Division and shall be published on the website of
the relevant High Court.
18. Power of High Court to issue directions. –– The High Court may, by notification, issue
practice directions to supplement the provisions of Chapter II of this Act or the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) insofar as such provisions apply to the hearing of commercial disputes of
a Specified Value.
19. Infrastructure facilities. –– The State Government shall provide necessary infrastructure to
facilitate the working of a Commercial Court or a Commercial Division of a High Court.
20. Training and continuous education. –– The State Government may, in consultation with the
High Court, establish necessary facilities providing for training of Judges who may be appointed to
the Commercial Court, Commercial Division or the Commercial Appellate Division in a High Court.
21. Act to have overriding effect. ––Save as otherwise provided, the provisions of this Act shall
have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time
being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law for the time being in force other
than this Act.
22. Power to remove difficulties. –– (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions
of this Act, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such
provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to it to be necessary or
expedient for removing the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of a period of two
years from the date of commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be, after it is made, before
each House of Parliament.
23. Repeal and savings. –– (1) The Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial
Appellate Division of High Courts Ordinance, 2015 (8 of 2015) is hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance, shall
be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act.