43
(3) The members of each Committee shall be appointed by the 1[High Court], which shall also
nominate one of their number to be President:
2*
*
*
*
*
(4) Each member of any such Committee shall hold office for such period as may be prescribed by
the 1[High Court] in this behalf; and whenever any member retires, resigns, dies or ceases reside in the
State in which the Committee was constituted, or becomes incapable of acting as a member of the
Committee, the said 1[High Court] may appoint another person to be a member in his stead.
(5) There shall be a secretary to each such Committee, who shall be appointed by the 1[High Court]
and shall receive such remuneration as may be provided in this behalf 3[by the State Government].
124. Committee to report to High Court.—Every Rule Committee shall make a report to the High
Court established at the town at which it is constituted on any proposal to annul, alter or add to the rules
in the First Schedule or to make new rules, and before making any rules under section 122 the High Court
shall take such report into consideration.
125. Power of other High Courts to make rules.—High Courts, other than the Courts specified in
section 122, may exercise the powers conferred by that section in such manner and subject to such
conditions 4[as 5[the State Government] may determine:]
Provided that any such High Court may, after previous publication, make a rule extending within the
local limits of its jurisdiction any rules which have been made by any other High Court.
6[126. Rules to be subject to approval.—Rules made under the foregoing provisions shall be subject to
the previous approval of the Government of the State in which the Court whose procedure the rules regulate
is situate or, if that Court is not situate in any State, to the previous approval of 7[Central Government.]]
127. Publication of rules.—Rules so made and 8[approved] shall be published in the 9[Official Gazette], and
shall from the date of publication or from such other date as may be specified have the same force and effect, within
the local limits of the jurisdiction of the High Court which made them, as if they had been contained in the First
Schedule.
128. Matters for which rules may provide.—(1) Such rules shall be not inconsistent with the provisions in the
body of this code, but, subject thereto, may provide for any matters relating to the procedure of Civil Courts.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1),
such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
(a) the service of summonses, notices and other processes by post or in any other manner either
generally or in any specified areas, and the proof of such service;
(b) the maintenance and custody, while under attachment, of live-stock and other movable
property, the fees payable for such maintenance and custody, the sale of such live-stock and property,
and the proceeds of such sale;
(c) procedure in suits by way of counterclaim, and the valuation of such suits for the purposes of
jurisdiction;
(d) procedure in garnishee and charging orders either in addition to, or in substitution for, the
attachment and sale of debts;
(e) procedure where the defendant claims to be entitled to contribution or indemnity over against
any person whether a party to the suit or not;
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 44, for “Chief Justice or Chief Judge” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Proviso omitted by s. 44, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “by the G.G. in C. or by the L.G., as the case may be”.
4. Subs. by Act 38 of 1920, s. 2 and the First Sch. Pt. I, for “as the G.G. in C. may determine”.
5. Subs. by the A.O.1937, for “in the case of the Court of the Judicial Commissioner of Coorg, the G.G. in C., and, in other cases
the L.G.”
6. Subs., ibid., for section 126.
7. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Governor General”.
8. Subs. by Act 24 of 1917, s. 2 and the First Sch., for “sanctioned”.
9. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Gazette of India or in the local Official Gazette, as the case may be”. Strictly the substitution
would read “Official Gazette or in the Official Gazette, as the case may be, but the latter words have been omitted as being
redundant”.