100
4. Endorsements on documents admitted in evidence.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the next
following sub-rule, there shall be endorsed on every document which has been admitted in evidence in the
suit the following particulars, namely:—
(a) the number and title of the suit,
(b) the name of the person producing the document,
(c) the date on which it was produced, and
(d) a statement of its having been so admitted;
and the endorsement shall be signed or initialled by the Judge.
(2) Where a document so admitted is an entry in a book, account or record, and a copy thereof has
been substituted for the original under the next following rule, the particulars aforesaid shall be endorsed
on the copy and the endorsement thereon shall be signed or initialled by the Judge.
5. Endorsements on copies of admitted entries in books, accounts and records.—(1) Save in so far
as is otherwise provided by the Bankers’ Books Evidence Act, 1891 (XVIII of 1891) where a document
admitted in evidence in the suit is an entry in a letter-book or a shop-book or other account in current use,
the party on whose behalf the book or account is produced may furnish a copy of the entry.
(2) Where such a document is an entry in a public record produced from a public office or by a public
officer, or an entry in a book or account belonging to a person other than a party on whose behalf the
book or account is produced, the Court may require a copy of the entry to be furnished—
(a) where the record, book or account is produced on behalf of a party, then by that party, or
(b) where the record, book or account is produced in obedience to an order of the Court acting of
its own motion, then by either or any party.
(3) Where a copy of an entry is furnished under the foregoing provisions of this rule, the Court shall, after
causing the copy to be examined, compared and certified in manner mentioned in rule 17 of Order VII, mark
the entry and cause the book, account or record in which it occurs to be returned to the person producing it.
6. Endorsements on documents rejected an inadmissible in evidence.—Where a document relied on
as evidence by either party is considered by the Court to be inadmissible in evidence, there shall be
endorsed thereon the particulars mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of rule 4, sub-rule (1) together with
a statement of its having been rejected, and the endorsement shall be signed or initialled by the Judge.
7. Recording of admitted and return of rejected documents.—(1) Every documents which has
been admitted in evidence, or a copy thereof where a copy has been substituted for the original under rule
5, shall form part of the record of the suit.
(2) Documents not admitted in evidence shall not form part of the record and shall be returned to the
persons respectively producing them.
8. Court may order any document to be impounded.—Notwithstanding anything contained in rule
5 or rule 7 of this Order or in rule 17 of Order VII, the Court may, if it sees sufficient cause, direct any
document or book produced before it in any suit to be impounded and kept in the custody of an officer of
the Court, for such period and subject to such conditions as the Court thinks fit.
9. Return of admitted documents.—(1) Any person, whether a party to the suit or not, desirous of
receiving back any documents produced by him in the suit and placed on the record shall, unless the
document is impounded under rule 8, be entitled to receive back the same,—
(a) where the suit is one in which an appeal is not allowed, when the suit has been disposed of, and
(b) where the suit is one in which an appeal is allowed, when the Court is satisfied that the time
for preferring an appeal has elapsed and that no appeal has been preferred or, if an appeal has been
preferred, when the appeal has been disposed of: