314
(h) direct a separate trial of any issue;
(i) decide the order in which issues are to be tried;
(j) exclude an issue from consideration;
(k) dismiss or give judgment on a claim after a decision on a preliminary issue;
(l) direct that evidence be recorded by a Commission where necessary in accordance with Order
XXVI;
(m) reject any affidavit of evidence filed by the parties for containing irrelevant, inadmissible or
argumentative material;
(n) strike off any parts of the affidavit of evidence filed by the parties containing irrelevant,
inadmissible or argumentative material;
(o) delegate the recording of evidence to such authority appointed by the Court for this purpose;
(p) pass any order relating to the monitoring of recording the evidence by a commission or any
other authority;
(q) order any party to file and exchange a costs budget;
(r) issue directions or pass any order for the purpose of managing the case and furthering the
overriding objective of ensuring the efficient disposal of the suit.
(2) When the Court passes an order in exercise of its powers under this Order, it may—
(a) make it subject to conditions, including a condition to pay a sum of money into Court; and
(b) specify the consequence of failure to comply with the order or a condition.
(3) While fixing the date for a Case Management Hearing, the Court may direct that the parties
also be present for such Case Management Hearing, if it is of the view that there is a possibility of
settlement between the parties.
7. Adjournment of Case Management Hearing. — (1) The Court shall not adjourn the Case
Management Hearing for the sole reason that the advocate appearing on behalf of a party is not
present:
Provided that an adjournment of the hearing is sought in advance by moving an application, the
Court may adjourn the hearing to another date upon the payment of such costs as the Court deems fit,
by the party moving such application.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Rule, if the Court is satisfied that there is a justified
reason for the absence of the advocate, it may adjourn the hearing to another date upon such terms and
conditions it deems fit.
8. Consequences of noncompliance with orders. —Where any party fails to comply with the
order of the Court passed in a Case Management Hearing, the Court shall have the power to—
(a) condone such non-compliance by payment of costs to the Court;
(b) foreclose the non-compliant party’s right to file affidavits, conduct cross-examination of
witnesses, file written submissions, address oral arguments or make further arguments in the trial, as
the case may be, or
(c) dismiss the plaint or allow the suit where such non-compliance is wilful, repeated and the
imposition of costs is not adequate to ensure compliance.”.
8. Amendment of Order XVIII. — In Order XVIII of the Code, in Rule 2, for sub-rules (3A),
(3B), (3C), (3D), (3E) and (3F), the following shall be substituted, namely:––
“(3A) A party shall, within four weeks prior to commencing the oral arguments, submit concisely
and under distinct headings written arguments in support of his case to the Court and such written
arguments shall form part of the record.