162
2. Proceedings to be held in camera.—In every suit or proceeding to which this Order applies, the
proceedings may be held in camera if the Court so desires and shall be so held if either party so desires.
3. Duty of Court to make efforts for settlement.—(1) In every suit or proceeding to which this
Order applies, an endeavour shall be made by the Court in the first instance, where it is possible to do so
consistent with the nature and circumstances of the case, to assist the parties in arriving at a settlement. In
respect of the subject-matter of the suit.
(2) If, in any such suit or proceeding, at any stage it appears to the Court that there is a reasonable
possibility of a settlement between the parties, the Court may adjourn the proceeding for such period as it
thinks fit to enable attempts to be made to effect such a settlement.
(3) The power conferred by sub-rule (2) shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other
power of the Court to adjourn the proceedings.
4. Assistance of welfare expert.—In every suit or proceeding to which this Order applies, it shall be
open to the Court to secure the services of such person (preferably a woman where available), whether
related to the parties or not, including a person professionally engaged in promoting the welfare of the
family as the Court may think fit, for the purpose of assisting the Court in discharging the functions
imposed by rule 3 of this Order.
5. Duty to inquire into facts.—In every suit or proceeding to which this Order applies, it shall be the
duty of the Court to inquire, so far it reasonably can, into the facts alleged by the plaintiff and into any
facts alleged by the defendant.
6. “Family”—meaning of.—For the purposes of this Order, each of the following shall be treated as
constituting a family, namely:—
(a) (i) a man and his wife living together,
(ii) any child or children, being issue of theirs; or of such man or such wife,
(iii) any child or children being maintained by such man and wife;
(b) a man not having a wife or not living together with his wife, any child or children, being issue
of his, and any child or children being mantained by him;
(c) a woman not having her husband or not living together with her husband, any child or children
being issue of hers, and any child or children being maintained by her;
(d) a man or woman and his or her brother; sister, ancestor or lineal descendant living with him or
her; and
(e) any combination of one or more of the groups specified in clause (a), clause (b), clause (c) or
clause (d) of this rule.
Explanation.—For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of rule 6 shall be
without any prejudice to the concept of “family” in any personal law or in another law for the time being
in force.]
ORDER XXXIII
1[Suits by Indigent Persons]
1. Suits may be instituted by indigent persons.—Subject to the following provisions, any suit may
be instituted by an 2[indigent person].
3[Explanation 1.—A person is an indigent person,—
(a) If he is not possessed of sufficient means (other than property exempt from attachment in
execution of a decree and the subject-matter of the suit) to enable him to pay the fee prescribed by
law for the plaint in such suit, or
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 81, for “Suits by Paupers”(w.e.f.1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 81. ibid. for “pauper” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 81, ibid., for the Explanation (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).