206
No. 26
OBSTRUCTING A HIGHWAY
(Title)
1. The defendant wrongfully dug a trench and heaped up earth and stones in the public highway
leading from to so as to obstruct it.
2. Thereby the plaintiff, while lawfully passing along the said highway, fell over the said earth and
stones, [or into the said trench] and broke his arm, and suffered great pain, and was prevented from
attending to his business for a long time, and incurred expense for medical attendance.
[As in paras. 4 and 5 of Form No. 1, and Relief claimed.]
No. 27
DIVERTING A WATER-COURSE
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. The plaintiff is, and at the time hereinafter mentioned was, possessed of a mill situated on a
[stream]known as the in the village of district of
2. By reason of such possession the plaintiff was entitled to the flow of the stream for working the
mill.
3. On the day of 19 the defendant, by cutting the bank of the stream,
wrongfully diverted the water thereof, so that less water ran into the plaintiff's mill.
4. By reason thereof the plaintiff has been unable to grind more than sacks per day, whereas,
before the said diversion of water, he was able to grind sacks per day.
[As in paras. 4 and 5 of Form No. 1, and Relief claimed.]
No. 28
OBSTRUCTING A RIGHT TO USE WATER FOR IRRIGATION
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. The plaintiff is, and was at the times hereinafter mentioned was, possessed of certain lands
situate, etc., and entitled to take and use a portion of the water of a certain stream for irrigating the
said lands.
2. On the day of 19 the defendant prevented the plaintiff from taking and
using the said portion of the said water as aforesaid, by wrongfully obstructing and diverting the said
stream.
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No.1, and Relief claimed.]
No. 29
INJURIES CAUSED BY NEGLIGENCE ON A RAILROAD
(Title)
A. B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. On the day of 19……., the defendants were common carriers of passengers
by railway between..……and
2. On that day the plaintiff was a passenger in one of the carriages of the defendants on the said
railway.
3. While he was such passenger, at [or near the station of or between the
stations of and ], a collision occurred on the said railway caused by the negligence and
unskill fulness of the defendants, servants, whereby the plaintiff was much injured [having his leg broken, his
head cut, etc., and state the special damage, if any, as], and incurred expense for medical attendance and is
permanently disabled from carrying on his former business as [a salesman].
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No. 1, and Relief claimed.]