22
Central Government 1[outside India] to which the State Government has by notification in the Official
Gazette declared this section to apply.]
46. Precepts.—(1) Upon the application of the decree-holder the Court which passed the decree may.
whenever it thinks fit, issue a precept to any other Court which would be competent to execute such
decree to attach any property belonging to the judgment-debtor and specified in the precept.
(2) The Court to which a precept is sent shall proceed to attach the property in the manner prescribed
in regard to the attachment of property in execution of a decree:
Provided that no attachment under a precept shall continue for more than two months unless the
period of attachment is extended by an order of the Court which passed the decree or unless before the
determination of such attachment the decree has been transferred to the Court by which the attachment
has been made and the decree-holder has applied for an order for the sale of such property.
QUESTIONS TO BE DETERMINED BY COURT EXECUTING DECREE
47. Questions to be determined by the Court executing decree.—(1) All questions arising between
the parties to the suit in which the decree was passed, or their representatives, and relating to the
execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree, shall be determined by the Court executing the decree
and not by a separate suit.
2*
*
*
*
*
(3) Where a question arises as to whether any person is or is not the representative of a party, such
question shall, for the purposes of this section, be determined by the Court.
3[Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this section, a plaintiff whose suit has been dismissed and a
defendant against whom a suit has been dismissed are parties to the suit.
Explanation II—(a) For the purposes of this section, a purchaser of property at a sale in execution of a
decree shall be deemed to be a party to the suit in which the decree is passed; and
(b) all questions relating to the delivery of possession of such property to such purchaser or his
representative shall be deemed to be questions relating to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree
within the meaning of this section.]
LIMIT OF TIME FOR EXECUTION
48. [Execution barred in certain cases.] Rep. by the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), s. 28 (w.e.f.1-1-
1964).
TRANSFEREES AND LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES
49. Transferee.—Every transferee of a decree shall hold the same subject to the equities (if any) which
the judgment-debtor might have enforced against the original decree-holder.
50. Legal representative.—(1) Where a judgment-debtor dies before the decree has been fully satisfied,
the holder of the decree may apply to the Court which passed it to execute the same against the legal
representative of the deceased.
(2) Where the decree is executed against such legal representative, he shall be liable only to the extent of
the property of the deceased which has come to his hands and has not been duly disposed of; and, for the
purpose of ascertaining such liability, the Court executing the decree may, of its own motion or on the
application of the decree-holder, compel such legal representative to produce such accounts as it thinks
fit.
PROCEDURE IN EXECUTION
51. Powers of Court to enforce execution.—Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
prescribed, the Court may, on the application of the decree-holder, order execution of the decree—
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “in any Indian State”.
2. Sub-section (2) omitted by Act 104 of 1976, s. 20 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 20, ibid, for the Explanation (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).