179
4. Order for injunction may be discharged, varied or set aside.—Any order for an injunction may
be discharged, or varied, or set aside by the Court, on application made thereto by any party dissatisfied
with such order:
1[Provided that if in an application for temporary injunction or in any affidavit supporting such application,
a party has knowingly made a false or misleading statement in relation to a material particular and the
injunction was granted without giving notice to the opposite party, the Court shall vacate the injunction unless,
for reasons to be recorded, it considers that it is not necessary so to do in the interests of justice:
Provided further that where an order for injunction has been passed after giving to a party an
opportunity of being heard, the order shall not be discharged, varied or set aside on the application of that
party except where such discharge, variation or setting aside has been necessitated by a change in the
circumstances, or unless the Court is satisfied that the order has caused undue hardship to that party.]
5. Injunction to corporation binding on its officer.—An injunction directed to a corporation is
binding not only on the corporation itself, but also on all members and officers of the corporation whose
personal action it seeks to restrain.
Interlocutory Orders
6. Power to order interim sale.—The Court may, on the application of any party to a suit, order the
sale, by any person named in such order, and in such manner and on such terms as it thinks fit, of any
movable property, being the subject-matter of such suit, or attached before judgment in such suit, which is
subject to speedy and natural delay, or which for any other just and sufficient cause, it may be desirable to
have sold at once.
7. Detention, preservation, inspection, etc., of subject-matter of suit.—(1) The Court may, on the
application of any party to a suit, and on such terms as it thinks fit,—
(a) make an order for the detention, preservation or inspection of any property which is the
subject-matter of such suit, or as to which any question may arise therein;
(b) for all or any of the purposes aforesaid authorize any person to enter upon or into any land or
building in the possession of any other party to such suit; and
(c) for all or any of the purposes aforesaid authorize any samples to be taken, or any observation
to be made or experiment to be tried, which may seem necessary or expedient for the purpose of
obtaining full information or evidence.
(2) The provisions as to execution of process shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to persons authorized to
enter under this rule.
8. Application for such orders to be after notice.—(1) An application by the plaintiff for an order
under rule 6 or rule 7 may be made 2*** at any time after institution of the suit.
(2)An application by the defendant for a like order may be made 3*** at any time after appearance.
4[(3) Before making an order under rule 6 or rule 7 on an application made for the purpose, the Court
shall, except where it appears that the object of making such order would be defeated by the delay, direct
notice thereof to be given to the opposite party.]
9. When party may be put in immediate possession of land the subject-matter of suit.—Where
and paying revenue to Government, or a tenure liable to sale, is the subject-matter of a suit, if the party in
possession of such land or tenure neglects to pay the Government revenue, or the rent due to the
proprietor of the tenure. as the case may be, and such land or tenure is consequently ordered to be sold,
any other party to the suit claiming to have an interest in such land or tenure may, upon payment of the
revenue or rent due previously to the sale (and with or without security at the discretion of the Court), be
put in immediate possession of the land or tenure;
1. The proviso added by Act 104 of 1976, s. 86 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. The words “after notice to the defendant” omitted by s. 86, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. The words “after notice to the plaintiff” omitted by s. 86, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Ins. by s. 86, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).