221
No. 2
SUMMONS FOR SETTLEMENT OF ISSUES (O. 5,rr.1. 5.)
(Title)
To
[Name, description and place of residence.]
WHEREAS
has instituted a suit against you for……………………………..you are hereby summoned to appear in
this Court in person, or by a pleader duly instructed, and able to answer all material question relating to
the suit, or who shall be accompanied by some person able to answer all such questions, on
the day of…… 19 at o'clock in
the………… noon, to answer the claim; 1[and further you are hereby directed to file on that day
a written statement of your defence and to produce on the said day all documents in your possession or
power upon which you base your defence or claim for set-off or counter-claim, and where you rely on any
other document whether in your possession or power or not, as evidence in support of your defence or
claim for set-off or counter-claim, you shall enter such documents in a list to be annexed to the written
statement].
Take note that, in default of your appearance on the day before mentioned, the suit will be heard
and determined in your absence.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19 .
Judge.
NOTICE—1. Should you apprehend your witnesses will not attend of their own accord, you can
have a summons from this Court to compel the attendance of any witness, and the production of any
document that you have a right to call on the witness to produce, on applying to the Court and on
depositing the necessary expenses.
2. If you admit the claim, you should pay the money into Court together with the costs of the suit,
to avoid execution of the decree, which may be against your person or property, or both.
No. 3
SUMMONS TO APPEAR IN PERSON (O. 5, r. 3.)
(Title)
To
[Name, description and place of residence.]
WHEREAS
has instituted a suit against you for you are hereby summoned to appear in this
Court in person on the… day of 19 at o’clock
in the noon, to answer the claim; and you are directed to produce on that day all the
documents upon which you intend to rely in support of your defence.
Take notice that, in default of your appearance on the day before mentioned, the suit will be heard
and determined in your absence.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day of 19 .
Judge.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 94, for certain words (w.e.f- 1-2-1977).