114
7. Date of decree.—The decree shall bear the day on which the judgment was pronounced, and, when
the judge has satisfied himself that the decree has been drawn up in accordance with the judgment, he
shall sign the decree.
8. Procedure where Judge has vacated office before signing decree.—Where a Judge has vacated
office after pronouncing judgment but without signing the decree, a decree drawn up in accordance with
such judgment may be signed by his successor or, if the Court has ceased to exist, by the Judge of any
Court to which such Court was subordinate.
9. Decree for recovery of immovable property.—Where the subject-matter of the suit is immovable
property, the decree shall contain a description of such property sufficient to identify the same, and where
such property can be identified by boundaries or by numbers in a record of settlement or survey, the
decree shall specify such boundaries or numbers.
10. Decree for delivery of movable property.—Where the suit is for movable property, and the
decree is for the delivery of such property, the decree shall also state the amount of money to be paid as
an alternative if delivery cannot be had.
11. Decree may direct payment by instalments.—(1)Where and in so far as a decree is for the
payment of money, the Court may for any sufficient reason 1[incorporate in the decree, after hearing such
of the parties who had appeared personally or by pleader at the last hearing, before judgment, an order
that] payment of the amount decreed shall be postponed or shall be made by instalments, with or without
interest, notwithstanding anything contained in the contract under which the money is payable.
(2) Order, after decree, for payment by instalments.—After the passing of any such decree the Court
may, on the application of the judgment-debtor and with the consent of the decree-holder, order that payment
of the amount decreed shall be postponed or shall be made by instalments on such terms as to the payment of
interest, the attachment of the property of the judgment-debtor, or the taking of security from him, or
otherwise, as it thinks fit.
12. Decree for possession and mesne profits.—(1) Where a suit is for the recovery of possession of
immovable property and for rent or mesne profits, the Court may pass a decree—
(a) for the possession of the property;
2[(b) for the rents which have accrued on the property during the period prior to the institution of
the suit or directing an inquiry as to such rent.
(ba) for the mesne profits or directing an inquiry as to such mesne profits;]
(c) directing an inquiry as to rent or mesne profits from the institution of the suit until—
(i) the delivery of possession to the decree-holder,
(ii) the relinquishment of possession by the judgment-debtor with notice to the decree-holder
through the Court, or
(iii) the expiration of three years from the date of the decree,
whichever event first occurs.
(2) Where an inquiry is directed under clause (b) or clause (c), a final decree in respect of the rent or
mesne profits shall be passed in accordance with the result of such inquiry.
3[12A. Decree for specific performance of contract for the sale or lease of immovable property.—
Where a decree for the specific performance of a contract for the sale or lease of immovable property orders
that the purchase-money or other sum be paid by the purchaser or lessee, it shall specify the period within
which the payment shall be made.]
13. Decree in administration suit.—(1) Where a suit is for an account of any property and for its due
administration under the decree of the Court, the Court shall, before passing the final decree, pass a
preliminary decree ordering such accounts and inquiries to be taken and made, and giving such other
directions as it thinks fit.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 70, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 70, ibid., for cl. (b) (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 70 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).