303
SCHEDULE
(See section 16)
1. Amendment of section 26.––In section 26 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereafter
referred to as the Code), in sub-section (2), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:––
“Provided that such an affidavit shall be in the form and manner as prescribed under Order VI
of Rule 15A”.
2. For section 35 of the Code, the following section shall be substituted, namely:––
‘35. Substitution of new section for section 35. –– (1) In relation to any commercial dispute,
the Court, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or Rule,
has the discretion to determine:
(a) whether costs are payable by one party to another;
(b) the quantum of those costs; and
(c) when they are to be paid.
Explanation.—For the purpose of clause (a), the expression “costs” shall mean reasonable
costs relating to—
(i) the fees and expenses of the witnesses incurred;
(ii) legal fees and expenses incurred;
(iii) any other expenses incurred in connection with the proceedings.
(2) If the Court decides to make an order for payment of costs, the general rule is that the
unsuccessful party shall be ordered to pay the costs of the successful party:
Provided that the Court may make an order deviating from the general rule for reasons to be
recorded in writing.
Illustration
The Plaintiff, in his suit, seeks a money decree for breach of contract, and damages. The Court
holds that the Plaintiff is entitled to the money decree. However, it returns a finding that the claim for
damages is frivolous and vexatious.
In such circumstances the Court may impose costs on the Plaintiff, despite the Plaintiff being the
successful party, for having raised frivolous claims for damages.
(3) In making an order for the payment of costs, the Court shall have regard to the following
circumstances, including—
(a) the conduct of the parties;
(b) whether a party has succeeded on part of its case, even
(c) Whether the party had made a frivolous counterclaim leading to delay in the disposal of the
case;
(d) Whether any reasonable offer to settle is made by a party and unreasonably refused by the
other party; and
(e) whether the party had made a frivolous claim and instituted a vexatious proceeding wasting
the time of the Court.
(4) The orders which the Court may under this provision include an order that a party must
pay —
(a) a proportion of another party’s costs;