196
3. Use of forms in appendices.—The Forms given in the appendices, with such variation as the
circumstances or each case may require, shall be used for the purposes therein mentioned.
ORDER XLIX
Chartered High Courts
1. Who may serve processes of High Court.—Notice to produce documents, summonses to
witnesses, and every other judicial process, issued in the exercise of the original civil jurisdiction of the
High Court, and of its matrimonial, testamentary and intestate jurisdictions, except summonses to
defendants, writs of execution and notices to respondents may be served by the attorneys in the suits, or
by persons employed by them, or by such other persons as the High Court, by any rule or order, directs.
2. Saving in respect of Chartered High Courts.—Nothing in this Schedule shall be deemed to limit
or otherwise affect any rules in force at the commencement of this Code for the taking of evidence or the
recording of judgments and orders by a Chartered High Court.
3. Application of rules.—The following rules shall not apply to any Chartered High Court in the
exercise of its ordinary or extraordinary original civil jurisdiction, namely:—
(1) rule 10 and rule 11, clauses (b) and (c), of Order VII;
(2) rule 3 of Order X;
(3) rule 2 of Order XVI;
(4) rules 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15 and 16 (so far as relates to the manner of taking evidence) of
Order XVIII;
(5) rule 1 to 8 of Order XX; and
(6) rule 7 of Order XXXIII (so far as relates to the making of a memorandum),
and rule 35 of Order XLI shall not apply to any such High Court in the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction.
ORDER L
Provincial Small Cause Courts
1. Provincial Small Cause Courts.—The provisions hereinafter specified shall not extend to Court
constituted under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (X of 1887) 1[or under the Berar Small
Cause Courts Law 1905] or to Courts exercising the jurisdiction of a Court of Small Causes 2[under the
said Act or Law] 3[or to Courts in 4[any part of India to which the said Act does not extend] exercising a
corresponding jurisdictions that is to say—
(a) so, much of this Schedule as relates to—
(i) suits excepted from the cognizance of a Court of Small Causes or the execution of decrees
in such suits;
(ii) the execution of decrees against immovable property or the interest of a partner in
partnership property;
(iii) the settlement of issues; and
(b) the following rules and orders:—
Order II, rule 1 (frame of suit);
Order X, rule 3 (record of examination of parties);
Order XV, except so much of rule 4 as provides for the pronouncement at once of
judgment;
Order XVIII, rule 5 to 12 (evidence);
Order XLI, to XLV (appeals);
Order XLVII, rules 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 (review);
Order LI.
1. Ins. by Act 4 of 1941, s. 2, and the Third Sch.
2. Subs. by s. 2, and the Third Sch. ibid., for “under that Act”.
3. Ins. by Act 2 of 1951 s. 18.
4. Subs. by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 2) Order, 1956 for “Part B States”.