252
and expenses as may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be payable
under rule 11, of order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, and that the
balance, if any, shall be applied in payment of the amount due to defendant No. 2; and that, if any balance
be left, it shall be paid to defendant No. 1 or other persons entitled to receive the same.
6. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, if the money realised by such sale shall not be
sufficient for payment in full of the amounts payable to the plaintiff and defendant No. 2, the plaintiff or
defendant No. 2, or both of them, as the case may be, shall be at liberty (if such remedy is open under
their respective mortgages and is not barred by any law for the time being in force) to apply for a personal
decree against defendant No. 2 or defendant No. 1 (as the case may be) for the amount of the balance.
7. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, if defendant No. 2 pays into Court to the credit of
this suit the amount adjudged due to the plaintiff, but defendant No. 1 makes default in payment of the
amount due to defendant No. 2, defendant No. 2 shall be at liberty to apply to the Court for a final decree
for foreclosure or sale (as the case may be)—(declarations in the ordinary form to be introduced
according to the nature of defendant No. 2’s mortgage and the remedies open to him thereunder).
8. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that the parties are at liberty to apply to the Court as
they may have occasion, and on such application or otherwise the Court may give such directions as it
thinks fit.
Schedule
Description of the mortgaged property
No. 12
DECREE FOR RECTIFICATION OF INSTRUMENT
(Title)
IT is hereby declared that ………………, dated the …………….day of …………….20..… does
not truly express the intention of the parties to such …………………….
And it is decreed that the said ……………….. be rectified by …………………..
No. 13
DECREE TO SET ASIDE A TRANSFER IN FRAUD OF CREDITORS
(Title)
IT is hereby declared that the …………… dated the..…………….day of.………..20.………., and
made between..…………….and..…………., is void as against the plaintiff and all other the creditors, if
any, of the defendant.
No. 14
INJUNCTION AGAINST PRIVATE NUISANCE
(Title)
LET the defendant ……………… his agents, servants and workmen, be perpetually restrained from
burning, or causing to be burnt, any bricks on the defendant’s plot of land marked B in the annexed plan,
so as to occasion a nuisance to the plaintiff as the owner or occupier of the dwelling-house and garden
mentioned in the plaint as belonging to and being occupied by the plaintiff.
No. 15
INJUNCTION AGAINST BUILDING HIGHER THAN OLD LEVEL
(Title)
LET the defendant ………………, his contractors, agents and workmen, be prepetually restrained
from continuing to erect upon his premises………………… any house or building of a greater height
than the buildings which formerly stood upon his said premises and which have been recently pulled down,
so or in such manner as to darken, injure or obstruct such of the plaintiffs windows in his said premises as
are ancient lights.