116
19. Decree when set-off or counter-claim is allowed.—(1)Where the defendant has been allowed a
set-off 1[or counter-claim] against the claim of the plaintiff, the decree shall state what amount is due to
the plaintiff and what amount is due to the defendant, and shall be for the recovery of any sum which
appears to be due to either party.
(2) Appeal from decree relating to set-off or counter-claim.—Any decree passed in a suit in which
a set-off 1[or counter-claim] is claimed shall be subject to the same provisions in respect of appeal to
which it would have been subject if no set-off 1[or counter-claim] had been claimed.
(3) The provisions of this rule shall apply whether the set-off is admissible under rule 6 of Order VIII
or otherwise.
20. Certified copies of judgment and decree to be furnished.—Certified copies of the judgment
and decree shall be furnished to the parties on application to the Court, and at their expense.
2[ORDER XXA
Costs
1. Provisions relating to certain items.—Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of this
Code relating to costs, the Court may award costs in respect of,—
(a) expenditure incurred for the giving of any notice required to be given by law before the
institution of the suit;
(b) expenditure incurred on any notice which, though not required to be given by law, has been
given by any party to the suit to any other party before the institution of the suit;
(c) expenditure incurred on the typing, writing or printing of pleadings filed by any party;
(d) charges paid by a party for inspection of the records of the Court for the purposes of the suit;
(e) expenditure incurred by a party for producing witnesses, even though not summoned through
Court; and
(f) in the case of appeals, charges incurred by a party for obtaining any copies of judgments and
decrees which are required to be filed along with the memorandum of appeal.
2. Costs to be awarded in accordance with the rules made by High Court.—The award of Costs
under this rule shall be in accordance with such rules as the High Court may make in that behalf.]
ORDER XXI
Execution of Decrees and Orders
Payment under Decree
3[1. Modes of paying money under decree.—(1) All money, payable under a decree shall be paid as
follows, namely:—
(a) by deposit into the court whose duty it is to execute the decree, or sent to that Court by postal
money order or through a bank; or
(b) out of Court, to the decree-holder by postal money order or through a bank or by any other
mode wherein payment is evidenced in writing; or
(c) otherwise, as the Court which made the decree, directs.
(2) Where any payments is made under clause (a) or clause (c) of sub-rule (1), the judgment-debtor
shall give notice thereof to the decree-holder either through the Court or directly to him by registered
post, acknowledgment due.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 70 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 71, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976 s. 72, for rule 1 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).