29
SALE
65. Purchaser’s title.—Where immovable property is sold in execution of a decree and such sale has
become absolute, the property shall be deemed to have vested in the purchaser from the time when the
property is sold and not from the time when the sale becomes absolute.
66. [Suit against purchaser not maintainable on ground of purchase being on behalf of plaintiff.] Rep. by Act, 1988
(45 of 1988) , s. 7 (w.e.f. 19-5-1988).
67. Power for State Government to make rules as to sales of land in execution of decrees for
payment of money. — 1[(1)] The State Government 2*** may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules for any local area imposing conditions in respect of the sale of any class of interests in land in execution
of decrees for the payment of money, where such interest are so uncertain or undetermined as, in the opinion
of the State Government, to make it impossible to fix their value.
3[(2) When on the date on which this Code came into operation in any local area, any special rules as
to sale of land in execution of decrees were in force therein, the State Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette declare such rules to be in force, or may 2*** by a like notification, modify the same.
Every notification issued in the exercise of the powers conferred by this sub-section shall set out the
rules so continued or modified.]
4[(3) Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the
State Legislature.]
DELEGATION TO COLLECTOR OF POWER TO EXECUTE DECREES AGAINST IMMOVABLE PROPERTY
68. Power to prescribe rules for transferring to collector execution of certain decrees. —
Rep. by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1956 (66 of 1956), s. 7.
69. Provisions of Third Schedule to apply. — Rep. by s. 7 ibid.
70. Rules of procedure. — Rep. by s. 7 ibid.
71. Collector deemed to be acting judicially. — Rep. by s. 7 ibid.
72. Where Court may authorize Collector to stay public sale of land. —Rep. by s. 7 ibid.
DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS
73. Proceeds of execution sale to be rateably distributed among decree-holders.—(1) Where
assets are held by a Court and more persons than one have, before the receipt of such assets, made
application to the Court for the execution of decrees for the payment of money passed against the same
judgment-debtor and have not obtained satisfaction thereof, the assets, after deducting the costs of
realization, shall be rateably distributed among all such persons :
Provided as follows :—
(a) where any property is sold subject to a mortgage or charge, the mortgage or incumbrancer shall
not be entitled to share in any surplus arising from such sale;
(b) where any property liable to be sold in execution of a decree is subject to a mortgage or charge,
the Court may, with the consent of the mortgagee or incumbrancer, order that the property be sold free
from the mortgage or charge, giving to the mortgagee or incumbrancer the same interest in the
proceeds of the sale as he had in the property sold;
(c) where any immovable property is sold in execution of a decree ordering its sale for the
discharge of an in cumbrance thereon, the proceeds of sale shall be applied—
First, in defraying the expenses of the sale;
Secondly, in discharging the amount due under the decree;
1. S. 67 renumbered as sub-section (1) by Act 1 of 1914, s. 3.
2. The words “with the previous sanction of the G.G. in C.” omitted by Act 38 of 1920, s. 2 and Sch., Pt. 1.
3. Added by Act 1 of 1914, s. 3.
4. Ins. by Act 20 of 1983, s. 2 and the Sch. (w.e.f. 15-3-1984).