193
1[(4) 2[Unless the Supreme Court otherwise directs, no decree or order of that Court] shall be
inoperative on the ground that no notice has been served on or given to the legal representative of any
deceased opposite party or deceased respondent in a case, where such opposite party or respondent did
not appear either at the hearing in the Court whose decree was complained of or at any proceedings
subsequent to the decree of that Court, but such order shall have the same force and effect as if it had
been made before the death took place.]
16. Appeal from order relating to execution.—The orders made by the Court which executes the
3[decree or order] of 4[the Supreme Court], relating to such execution, shall be appealable in the same
manner and subject to the same rules as the orders of such Court relating to the execution of its own
decrees.
17. [Appeals to Federal Court.]—Rep. by the Federal Act, 1941 (21 of 1941), s. 2.
ORDER XLVI
Reference
1. Reference of question to High Court.—Where, before or on the hearing of a suit or an appeal in
which the decree is not subject to appeal, or where, in the execution of any such decree, any question of
law or usage having the force of law arises, on which the Court trying the suit or appeal, or executing the
decree, entertains reasonable doubt, the Court may, either of its own motion or on the application of any
of the parties, draw up a statement of the facts of the case and the point on which doubt is entertained,
and refer such statement with its own opinion on the point for the decision of the High Court.
2. Court may pass decree contingent upon decision of High Court.—The Court may either stay
the proceedings or proceed in the case notwithstanding such reference, and may pass a decree or make an
order contingent upon the decision of the, High Court on the point referred:
But no decree or order shall be executed in any ease in which such reference is made until the receipt
of a copy of the judgment of the High Court upon the reference.
3. Judgment of High Court to be transmitted and case disposed of accordingly.—The High
Court, after hearing the parties if they appear and desire to be heard, shall decide the point so referred,
and shall transmit a copy of its judgment, under the signature of the Registrar, to the Court by which the
reference was made; and such Court shall, on the receipt thereof, proceed to dispose of the case in
conformity with the decision of the High Court.
4. Cost of reference to High Court.—The costs (if any) consequent on a reference for the decision
of the High Court shall be costs in the case.
5[4A. Reference to High Court under proviso to section 113.—The provisions of rules 2, 3 and 4
shall apply to any reference by the Court under the proviso to section 113 as they apply to a reference
under rule 1.]
5. Power to alter, etc., decree of Court making reference.—Where a case is referred to the High
Court under rule 5[or under the proviso to section 113], the High Court may return the case for
amendment, and may alter, cancel or set aside any decree or order which the Court making the reference
has passed or made in the case out of which the reference arose, and make such order as it thinks fit.
1. Ins. by Act 26 of 1920, s. 5.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Unless His Majesty ins Council is pleased otherwise to direct, no order of His Majesty in
Council”.
3. Subs., ibid., for “order”.
4. Subs., ibid., for “His Majesty in Council”.
5. Ins. by Act 24 of 1951, s. 2.