278
[Where part only of a book is to be restrained]
………….to restrain the defendant CD., his servants, agents or workmen, from printing, publishing,
selling or otherwise disposing of such parts of the book in the plaint [or petition and evidence, etc.] mentioned
to have been published by the defendant as hereinafter specified, namely, that part of the said book which is
entitled………..and also that part which is entitled…………………… [or which is contained in
page………..to page both inclusive] until ……………… etc.
[In Patent cases]……………..to restrain the defendant C. D., his agents, servants and workmen, from
making or vending any perforated bricks [or as the case maybe] upon the principle of the inventions in
the plaintiff's plaint [or petition, etc., or written statement, etc.,] mentioned, belonging to the plaintiffs, or either of
them, during the remainder of the respective terms of the patents in the plaintiff's plaint [or as the case may be]
mentioned, and from counterfeiting, imitating or resembling the same inventions, or either of them, or making
any addition thereto, or subtraction therefrom, until the hearing, etc.
[In cases of Trade marks]……………to restrain the defendant C.D., his servants, agents or workmen,
from selling, or exposing for sale, or procuring to be sold, any composition or blacking [or as the case may be]
described as or purporting to be blacking manufactured by the plaintiff A.B., in bottles having affixed thereto
such labels as in the plaintiff's plaint [or petition, etc.] mentioned, or any other labels so contrived or expressed
as, by colorable imitation or otherwise, to represent the composition or blacking sold by the defendant to be the
same as the composition or blacking manufactured and sold by the plaintiff A.B., and from using trade-cards
so contrived or expressed as to represent that any composition or blacking sold or proposed to be sold by the
defendant is the same as the composition or blacking manufactured or sold by the plaintiff. B. until the, etc.
[To restrain a partner from in any way interfering in the business]
to restrain the defendant C.D., his agents, and servants, from entering into any contract, and from
accepting, drawing, endorsing or negotiating any bill of exchange, note or written security in the name of the
partnership-firm of B. and D., and from contracting any debt, buying and selling any goods, and from making or
entering into any verbal or written promise, agreement or undertaking, and from doing, or causing to be done,
any act, in the name or on the credit of the said partnership-firm of B. and D., or whereby the said partnership-
firm can or may in any manner become or be made liable to or for the payment of any sum of money, or for the
performance of any contract, promise or undertaking until the, etc.
No.1[9]
APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER
(O .40, r. 1.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS……………….has been attached in execution of a decree passed in the above suit on
the day of…………….19…… in favour of……….; You are hereby (subject to your giving
security
to the satisfaction of the Court) appointed receiver of the said property under Order XL of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, with full powers under the provisions of that Order.
You are required to render a due and proper account of your receipts and disbursements in respect of the
said property on……….You will be entitled to remuneration at the rate of…………………per cent. upon
your receipts under the authority of this appointment.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this…………..day of……….19
Judge.
1. The number of the Form, originally misprinted as 6, was corrected by Act 10 of 1914, s. 2 and the First Sch.