96
7. Setting aside and striking out interrogatories.—Any interrogatories may be set aside on the
ground that they have been exhibited unreasonably or vexatiously, or struck out on the ground that they
are prolix, oppressive, unnecessary or scandalous; and any application for this purpose may be made
within seven days after service of the interrogatories.
8. Affidavit in answer, filing.—Interrogatories shall be answered by affidavit to be filed within ten
days or within such other time as the Court may allow.
9. Form of affidavit in answer.—An affidavit in answer to interrogatories shall be in Form No. 3 in
Appendix C, with such variations as circumstances may require.
10. No exception to be taken.—No exceptions shall be taken to any affidavit in answer, but the
sufficiency or otherwise of any such affidavit objected to as insufficient shall be determined by the
Court.
11. Order to answer or answer further.—Where any person interrogated omits to answer, or
answer insufficiently, the party interrogating may apply to the Court for an order requiring him to
answer, or to answer further, as the case may be. And an order may be made requiring him to answer or
answer further, either by affidavit or by viva voce examination, as the Court may direct.
12. Application for discovery of documents.—Any party may, without filing any affidavit, apply to
the Court for an order directing any other party to any suit to make discovery on oath of the documents
which are or have been in his possession or power, relating to any matter in question therein. On the
hearing of such application the Court may either refuse or adjourn the same, if satisfied that such
discovery is not necessary, or not necessary at that stage of the suit, or make such order, either generally
or limited to certain classes of documents, as may, in its discretion be thought fit:
Provided that discovery shall not be ordered when and so far as the Court shall be of opinion that it is
not necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs.
13. Affidavit of documents.—The affidavit to be made by a party against whom such order as is
mentioned in the last preceding rule has been made, shall specify which (if any) of the documents therein
mentioned he objects to produce, and it shall be in Form No. 5 in Appendix C, with such variations as
circumstances may require.
14. Production of documents.—It shall be lawful for the Court, at any time during the pendency of
any suit, to order the production by any party thereto, upon oath, of such of the documents in his
possession or power, relating to any matter in question in such suit, as the Court shall think right; and the
Court may deal with such documents, when produced, in such manner as shall appear just.
15. Inspection of documents referred to in pleadings or affidavits.—Every party to a suit shall be
entitled 1[at or before the settlement of issues] to give notice to any other party, in whose pleadings or
affidavits reference is made to any document,2[or who has entered any document in any list annexed to
his pleadings,] to produce such document for the inspection of the party giving such notice, or of his
pleader, and to permit him or them to take copies thereof; and any party not complying with such notice
shall not afterwards be at liberty to put any such document in evidence on his behalf in such suit unless
he shall satisfy the Court that such document relates only to his own title, he being a defendant to the
suit, or that he had some other cause or excuse which the Court shall deem sufficient for not complying
with such notice, in which case the Court may allow the same to be put in evidence on such terms as to
costs and otherwise as the Court shall think fit.
16. Notice to produce.—Notice to any party to produce any documents referred to in his pleading or
affidavits shall be in Form No. 7 in Appendix C, with such variations as circumstances may require.
1. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 21, for “at any time” (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 61 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).