180
and the Court in its decree may award against the defaulter the amount so paid, with interest thereon at
such rate as the Court thinks fit, or may charge the amount so paid, with interest thereon at such rate as
the Court orders, in any adjustment of accounts which may be directed in the decree passed in the suit.
10. Deposit of money, etc., in Court.—Where the subject-matter of a suit is money or some other
thing capable of delivery and any party thereto admits that he holds such money or other thing as a
trustee for another party, or that it belongs or is due to another party, the Court may order the same to
be deposited in Court or delivered to such last-named party, with or without security, subject to the
further direction of the Court.
ORDER XL
Appointment of Receivers
1. Appointment of receivers.—(1) Where it appears to the Court to be just and convenient, the Court
may by order—
(a) appoint a receiver of any property, whether before or after decree;
(b) remove any person from the possession or custody of the property;
(c) commit the same to the possession, custody or management of the receiver; and
(d) confer upon the receiver all such powers, as to bringing and defending suits and for the
realization, management, protection, preservation and improvement of the property, the collection of
the rents and profits thereof, the application and disposal of such rents and profits, and the execution
of documents as the owner himself has, or such of those powers as the Court thinks fit.
(2)Nothing in this rule shall authorize the Court to remove from the possession or custody of property
any person whom any party to the suit has not a present right so to remove.
2. Remuneration.—The Court may by general or special order fix the amount to be paid as
remuneration for the services of the receiver.
3. Duties.—Every receiver so appointed shall—
(a) furnish such security (if any) as the Court thinks fit, duly to account for what he shall receive
in respect of the property ;
(b) submit his accounts at such periods and in such form as the Court directs;
(c) pay the amount due from him as the Court directs; and
(d) be responsible for any loss occasioned to the property by his wilful default or gross
negligence.
4. Enforcement of receiver’s duties.—Where a receiver—
(a) fails to submit his accounts at such periods and in such form as the Court directs, or
(b) fails to pay the amount due from him as the Court directs, or
(c) occasions loss to the property by his wilful default or gross negligence,
the Court may direct his property to be attached and may sell such property, and may apply the proceeds
to make good any amount found to be due from him or any loss occasioned by him, and shall pay the
balance (if any) to the receiver.
5. When Collector may be appointed receiver.—Where the property is land paying revenue to the
Government, or land of which the revenue has been assigned or redeemed, and the Court considers that
the interests of those concerned will be promoted by the management of the Collector, the Court may,
with the consent of the Collector, appoint him to be receiver of such property.
ORDER XLI
Appeals from Original Decrees
1. Form of appeal. What to accompany memorandum.—(1) Every appeal shall be preferred in the
form of a memorandum signed by the appellant or his pleader and presented to the Court or to such
officer as it appoints in this behalf. The memorandum shall be accompanied by a copy of the 1[Judgment].
1. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999. s. 31 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).