309
(a) correctness of contents of a document;
(b) existence of a document;
(c) execution of a document;
(d) issuance or receipt of a document;
(e) custody of a document.
Explanation.––A statement of admission or denial of the existence of a document made in
accordance with sub-rule (2)(b) shall include the admission or denial of the contents of a
document.
(3) Each party shall set out reasons for denying a document under any of the above grounds and
bare and unsupported denials shall not be deemed to be denials of a document and proof of such
documents may then be dispensed with at the discretion of the Court.
(4) Any party may however submit bare denials for third party documents of which the party
denying does not have any personal knowledge of, and to which the party denying is not a party to
in any manner whatsoever. Inspection. Admission and denial of documents.
(5) An Affidavit in support of the statement of admissions and denials shall be filed confirming
the correctness of the contents of the statement.
(6) In the event that the Court holds that any party has unduly refused to admit a document
under any of the above criteria,– costs (including exemplary costs) for deciding on admissibility of
a document may be imposed by the Court on such party.
(7) The Court may pass orders with respect to admitted documents including for waiver of
further proof thereon or rejection of any documents.
5. Production of documents. –– (1) Any party to a proceeding may seek or the Court may
order, at any time during the pendency of any suit, production by any party or person, of such
documents in the possession or power of such party or person, relating to any matter in question in
such suit.
(2) Notice to produce such document shall be issued in the Form provided in Form No. 7 in
Appendix C to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).
(3) Any party or person to whom such notice to produce is issued shall be given not less than
seven days and not more than fifteen days to produce such document or to answer to their inability
to produce such document.
(4) The Court may draw an adverse inference against a party refusing to produce such
document after issuance of a notice to produce and where sufficient reasons for such non–
production are not given and order costs.
6. Electronic records. –– (1) In case of disclosures and inspection of Electronic Records (as
defined in the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000), furnishing of printouts shall be
sufficient compliance of the above provisions.
(2) At the discretion of the parties or where required (when parties wish to rely on audio or
video content), copies of electronic records may be furnished in electronic form either in addition
to or in lieu of printouts.
(3) Where Electronic Records form part of documents disclosed, the declaration on oath to be
filed by a party shall specify––
(a) the parties to such Electronic Record;
(b) the manner in which such electronic record was produced and by whom;
(c) the dates and time of preparation or storage or issuance or receipt of each such electronic
record;