151
18. Parties to appear before Commissioner.—(1) Where a commission is issued under this Order,
the Court shall direct that the parties to the suit shall appear before the Commissioner in person or by their
agents or pleaders.
(2) Where all or any of the parties do not so appear, the Commissioner may proceed in their
absence.
1[18A. Application of order to execution proceedings.—The provisions of this Order shall apply,
so far as may be, to proceedings in execution of a decree or order.
18B. Court to fix a time for return of commission.—The Court issuing a commission shall fix a
date on or before which the commission shall be returned to it after execution, and the date so fixed
shall not be extended except where the Court, for reasons to be recorded, is satisfied that there is
sufficient cause for extending the date.]
2[Commissions issued of the instance of foreign Tribunals
19. Cases in which High Court may issue commission to examine witness.—(1) If a High Court is
satisfied.—
(a) that a foreign court situated in a foreign country wishes to obtain the evidence of a witness in
any proceeding before it,
(b) that the proceeding is of a civil nature, and
(c) that the witness is residing within the limits of the High Court's appellate jurisdiction,
it may, subject to the provisions of rule 20, issue a commission for the examination of such witness.
(2) Evidence may be given of the matters specified in clause (a), (b) and (c) of sub-rule (1)—
(a) by a certificate signed by the consular officer of the foreign country of the highest rank in India
and transmitted to the High Court through the Central Government, or
(b) by a letter of request issued by the foreign Court and transmitted to the High Court through the
Central Government, or
(c) by a letter of request issued by the foreign court and produced before the High Court by a party
to the proceeding.
20. Application for issue of commission.—The High Court may issue a commission under rule 19—
(a) upon application by a party to the proceeding before the foreign court, or
(b) upon an application by a law officer of the State Government acting under instructions from
the State Government.
21. To whom commission may be issued.—A commission under rule 19 may be issued to any Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the witness resides, or 3*** the witness resides within the
local limits of 4[the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of the High Court], to any person whom the Court
thinks fit to execute the commission.
22. Issue, execution and return of commissions, land transmission of evidence to foreign
Court.—The provisions of rules 6, 15, 5[sub-rule (1) of rule 16A, 17, 18 and 18B] of this Order in so
far as they are applicable shall apply to the issue, execution and return of such commissions, and when
any such commission has, along with the letter of request for transmission to the foreign been duly
executed it shall be returned, together with the evidence taken under it, to the High Court, which shall
forward it to the Central Government court.]
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 75 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by Act 10 of 1932, s. 3.
3. The words “the High Court is established under the Indian High courts Act. 1861, or the Government of India Act, 1915, and”
omitted by the A.O. 1937.
4. Subs. ibid., “its ordinary original civil jurisdiction”.
5. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976. s. 75. for “16, 17 and 18” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).