195
(2) Application where granted.—Where the Court is of opinion that the application for review
should be granted, it shall grant the same:
Provided that—
(a) no such application shall be granted without previous notice to the opposite party, to enable
him to appear and be heard in support of the decree or order, a review of which is applied for; and
(b) no such application shall be granted on the ground of discovery of new matter or evidence
which the applicant alleges was not within his knowledge, or could not be adduced by him when the
decree or order was passed or made, without strict proof of such allegation.
5. Application for review in Court consisting of two or more Judges.—Where the Judge or
Judges, or any one of the Judges, who passed the decree or made the order a review of which is applied
for, continues or continued attached to the Court at the time when the application for a review is
presented, and is not or are not precluded by absence or other cause for a period of six months next after
the application from considering the decree or order to which the application refers, such Judge or Judges
or any of them shall hear the application, and no other Judge or Judges of the Court shall hear the same.
6. Application where rejected.—(1) Where the application for a review is heard by more than one
Judge and the Court is equally divided, the application shall be rejected.
(2) Where there is a majority, the decision shall be according to the opinion of the majority.
7. Order of rejection not appealable. Objections to order granting application.—1[(1) An order
of the Court rejecting the application shall not be appealable; but an order granting an application may be
objected to at once by an appeal from the order granting the application or in an appeal from the decree or
order finally passed or made in the suit.]
(2) Where the application has been rejected in consequence of the failure of the applicant to appear,
he may apply for an order to have the rejected application restored to the file, and, where it is proved to
the satisfaction of the Court that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when such
application was called on for hearing, the Court shall order it to be restored to the file upon such terms as
to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for hearing the same.
(3) No order shall be made under sub-rule (2) unless notice of the application has been served on the
opposite party.
8. Registry of application granted, and order for re-hearings.—When an application for review is
granted, a note thereof shall be made in the register and the Court may at once re-hear the case or make
such order in regard to the re-hearing as it thinks fit.
9. Bar of certain application.—No application to review an order made on an application for a
review or a decree or order passed or made on a review shall be entertained.
ORDER XLVIII
Miscellaneous
1. Process to be served at expense of party issuing.—(1) Every process issued under this Code shall
be served at the expense of the party on whose behalf it is issued, unless the Court-otherwise directs.
(2) Costs of service.—The court-fee chargeable for such service shall be paid within a time to be
fixed before the process is issued.
2. Orders and notices how served.—All orders, notices and other documents required by this Code to
be given to or served on any person shall be served in the manner provided for the service of summons.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 92, for sub-rule (1) (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).