91
(e) A sues B for compensation on account of trespass. B hold a promissory note for Rs. 1,000 from A and claims to set-off that
amount against any sum that A may recover in the suit. B may do so, for, as soon as A recovers, both sums are definite
pecuniary demands.
(f) A and B sue C for Rs. 1,000. C cannot set-off a debt due to him by A alone.
(g) A sues B and C for Rs. 1,000. B cannot set-off a debt due to him alone by A.
(h) A owes the partnership firm of B and C Rs. 1,000. B dies, leaving C surviving. A sues C for a debt for Rs. 1,500 due in his
separate character. C may set-off the debt of Rs. 1,000.
1[6A. Counter-claim by defendant.—(1) A defendant in a suit may, in addition to his right of
pleading a set-off under rule 6, set up, by way of counter-claim against the claim of the plaintiff, any
right or claim in respect of a cause of action accruing to the defendant against the plaintiff either before
or after the filing of the suit but before the defendant has delivered his defence or before the time limited
for delivering his defence has expired, whether such counter-claim is in the nature of a claim for
damages or not:
Provided that such counter-claim shall not exceed the pecuniary limits of the jurisdiction of the
court.
(2) Such counter-claim shall have the same effect as a cross-suit so as to enable the Court to pro-
nounce a final judgment in the same suit, both on the original claim and on the counter-claim.
(3) The plaintiff shall be at liberty to file a written statement in answer to the counter-claim of the
defendant within such period as may be fixed by the court.
(4) The counter-claim shall be treated as a plaint and governed by the rules applicable to plaints.
6B. Counter-claim to be stated.— Where any defendant seeks to rely upon any ground as support-
ing a right of counter-claim, he shall, in his written statement, state specifically that he does so by way of
counter-claim.
6C. Exclusion of counter-claim.—Where a defendant sets up a counter-claim and the plaintiff con-
tends that the claim thereby raised ought not to be disposed of by way of counter-claim but in an indepen-
dent suit, the plaintiff may, at any time before issues are settled in relation to the counter-claim, apply to
the Court for an order that such counter-claim may be excluded, and the Court may, on the hearing of
such application make such order as it thinks fit.
6D. Effect of discontinuance of suit.— If in any case in which the defendant sets up a counterclaim,
the suit of the plaintiff is stayed, discontinued or dismissed, the counter-claim may nevertheless be
proceeded with.
6E. Default of plaintiff to reply to counter-claim.—If the plantiff makes default in putting in a
reply to the counter-claim made by the defendant, the Court may pronounce judgment against the plaintiff
in relation to the counter-claim made against him, or make such order in relation to the counter-claim as it
thinks fit.
6F. Relief to defendant where counter-claim succeeds.—Wherein any suit a set-off or counter-
claim is established as a defence against the plaintiff’s claim and any balance is found due to the
plaintiff or the defendant, as the case may be the Court may give judgment to the party entitled to
such balance.
6G. Rules relating to written statement to apply.—The rules relating to a written statement by a
defendant shall apply to a written statement filed in answer to a counter-claim.]
7. Defence or set-off founded upon separate grounds.—Where the defendant relies upon several
distinct grounds of defence or set-off 1[or counter-claim] founded upon separate and distinct facts, they
shall be stated, as far as may be, separately and distinctly.
8. New ground of defence.—Any ground of defence which has arisen after the institution of the suit
or the presentation of a written statement claiming a set-off 1[or counter-claim] may be raised by the
defendant or plaintiff, as the case may be, in his written statement.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 58 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).