251
(Order XXXIV, rule 4)
(Title)
This suit coming on the………….……..day, etc. ; It is hereby declared that the amount due to
defendant No. 2 on his mortgage calculated up to this…………………day of……………. Is the sum of
Rs. …………..…. for principal, the sum of Rs. ……………… for interest on the said principal, the sum
of Rs. ……………..for costs, charges and expenses (other than the costs of the suit) in respect of the
mortgage-security together with interest thereon and the sum of Rs. …………… for the costs of the suit
awarded to defendant No. 2, making in all the sum of Rs. ……………
(Similar declarations to be introduced with regard to the amount due from defendant No. 2 to the
plaintiff in respect of his mortgage.)
2. And it is hereby ordered and decreed as follows:—
(i) that defendant No. 1 do pay into Court on or before the said ………… day of ………… or any
later date of up to which time for payment may be extended by the Court the said sum of Rs. ……….
due to defendant No. 2;
(Similar declarations to be introduced with regard to the amount due to the plaintiff, defendant No. 2
being at liberty to pay such amount.)
(ii) that, on payment of the sum declared due to defendant No. 2 by defendant No. 1 in the
manner prescribed in clause 2 (i) and on payment thereafter before such date as the Court may fix of
such amount as the Court may adjudge due in respect of such costs of the suit and such costs, charges
and expenses as may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be
payable under rule 11, of Order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
the plaintiff and defendant No. 2 shall bring into Court all documents in their possession or power
relating to the mortgaged property in the plaint mentioned, and all such documents (except such as
relate only to the sub-mortgage) shall be delivered over to defendant No. 1, or to such person as he
appoints, and defendant No. 2 shall, if so required, re-convey or re-transfer the property to defendant
No. 1 free from the said mortgage clear of and from all encumbrances created by defendant No. 2 or
any person claiming under him or any person under whom he claims, and free from all liability
arising from the mortgage or this suit and shall, if so required, deliver up to defendant No. 1 quiet and
peaceable possession of the said property; and
(iii) that, upon payment into the Court by defendant No. 1 of the amount due to defendant No. 2
the plaintiff shall be at liberty to apply for payment to him of the sum declared due to him together
with any subsequent costs of the suit and other costs, charges and expenses, as may be payable under
rule 10, together with such subsequent interests as may be payable under rule 11, of Order XXXIV of
the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908; and that the balance, if any, shall then be
paid to defendant No. 2; and that if the amount paid into the Court be not sufficient to pay in full the
sum due to the plaintiff, the plaintiff shall be at liberty (if such remedy is open to him by the terms of
the mortgage and is not barred by any law for the time being in force) to apply for a personal decree
against as defendant No. 2 for the amount of the balance.
3. And it is further ordered and decreed that if defendant No. 2 pays into Court to the credit of this
suit the amount adjudged due to the plaintiff, the plaintiff shall bring into the Court all documents, etc.,
[as in sub-clause (ii)of clause 2].
4. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, in default of payment by defendant Nos. 1 and 2
as aforesaid, the plaintiff may apply to the Court for a final decree for sale, and on such application being
made the mortgaged property or a sufficient part thereof shall be directed to be sold; and that for the
purposes of such sale the plaintiff and defendant No. 2 shall produce before the Court or such officer as it
appoints, all documents in their possession or power relating to the mortgaged property.
5. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that the money realised by such sale shall be paid into
Court and be duly applied (after deduction therefrom of the expenses of the sale) first in payment of the
amount due to the plaintiff as specified in clause 1 above with such costs of the suit and other costs, charges