25
(2) A judgment-debtor released from detention under this section shall not merely by reason of his
release be discharged from his debt, but he shall not be liable to be re-arrested under the decree in
execution of which he was detained in the civil prison.
59. Release on ground of illness.—(1) At any time after a warrant for the arrest of a judgment-debtor
has been issued the Court may cancel it on the ground of his serious illness.
(2) Where a judgment-debtor has been arrested, the Court may release him if, in its opinion, he is not
in a fit state of health to be detained in the civil prison.
(3) Where a judgment-debtor has been committed to the civil prison, he may be released therefrom—
(a) by the State Government, on the ground of the existence of any infectious or contagious
disease, or
(b) by the committing Court, or any Court to which that Court is subordinate, on the ground of his
suffering from any serious illness.
(4) A judgment-debtor released under this section may be re-arrested, but the period of his detention
in civil prison shall not in the aggregate exceed that prescribed by section 58.
ATTACHMENT
160. Property liable to attachment and sale in execution of decree.—(1) The following property is
liable to attachment and sale in execution of a decree, namely, lands, houses or other buildings, goods,
money, bank-notes, cheques, bills of exchange, hundis, promissory notes, Government securities, bonds or
other securities for money, debts, shares in a corporation and, save as hereinafter mentioned, all other
saleable property, movable or immovable, belonging to the judgment-debtor, or over which, or the profits
of which, he has a disposing power which he may exercise for his own benefit, whether the same be held
in the name of the judgment-debtor or by another person in trust for him or on his behalf:
Provided that the following particulars shall not be liable to such attachment or sale, namely:—
(a) the necessary wearing-apparel, cooking vessels, beds and bedding of the judgment-debtor, his
wife and children, and such personal ornaments as, in accordance with religious usage, cannot be
parted with by any woman;
(b) tools of artisans, and, where the judgment-debtor is an agriculturist, his implements of
husbandry and such cattle and seed-grain as may, in the opinion of the Court, be necessary to enable
him to earn his livelihood as such, and such portion of agricultural produce or of any class of
agricultural produce as may have been declared to be free from liability under the provisions of the
next following section;
(c) houses and other buildings (with the materials and the sites thereof and the land immediately
appurtenant thereto and necessary for their enjoyment) belonging to 2[an agriculturist or a labourer of
adomestic servant] and occupied by him ;
(d) books of account ;
(e) a mere right to sue for damages ;
(f) any right of personal service ;
(g) stipends and gratuities allowed to pensioners of the Government 3[or of a local authority or of
any other employer], or payable out of any service family pension fund 4notified in the Official
Gazette by 5[the Central Government or the State Government] in this behalf, and political pensions;
6[(h) the wages of labourers and domestic servants, whether payable in money or in kind; 7***
1. For amendments to s. 60, in its application to East Punjab, see the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness Act, 1934 (Pun. Act 7 of 1934), s. 35, as
amended by Pun. Acts 12 of 1940 and 6 of 1942.
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 23, for “an agriculturist” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977)
3. Ins. by s. 23, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. For such a notification, see Gazette of India, 1909, Pt I, .
5. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the G.G. in C.”
6. Subs. by Act 9 of 1937, s. 2, for clauses (h) and (i). The amendments made by that section have no effect in respect of any proceedings arising
out of a suit instituted before 1st June, 1937, see ibid., s. 3.
7. The words “and salary, to the extent of the first hundred rupees and one-half the remainder of such salary” omitted by Act 5 of 1943,
s. 2.