63
RULES
4A. Commission for examination of any person resident within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the Court.
5. Commission or request to examine witness not within India.
6. Court to examine witness pursuant to commission.
7. Return of commission with depositions of witnesses.
8.When depositions may be read in evidence.
Commissions for local investigations
9. Commissions to make local investigations.
10.
Procedure of Commissioner.
Report and depositions to be evidence in suit.
Commissioner may be examined in person.
Commissions for scientific investigation, performance of ministerial act
and sale of movable property
10A. Commission for scientific investigation.
10B. Commission for performance of a ministerial act.
10C. Commission for the sale of movable property.
Commissions to examine accounts
11.
Commission to examine or adjust accounts.
12.
Court to give Commissioner necessary instructions.
Proceedings and report to be evidence.
Court may direct further inquiry.
Commissions to make partitions.
13.
Commission to make partition of immovable property.
14.
Procedure of Commissioner.
General Provisions
15. Expenses of commission to be paid into Court.
16. Powers of Commissioners.
16A. Questions objected to before the Commissioner.
17.
Attendance and examination of witnesses before Commissioner.
18.
Parties to appear before Commissioner.
18A. Application of Order to execution proceedings.
18B. Court to fix a time for return of Commission.
Commissions issued at the instance of Foreign Tribunals
19.
Cases in which High Court may issue commission to examine witness.
20. Application for issue of commission.
21. To whom commission may be issued.
22. Issue, execution and return of commissions, and transmission of evidence to foreign Court.
ORDER XXVII
Suits by or against the Government or Public Officers in their Official Capacity
1. Suits by or against Government.
2. Persons authorized to act for Government.
3. Plaints in suits by or against Government.
4. Agent for Government to receive process.