82
1[Provided that where any such defendant 2[resides in Bangladesh or Pakistan], the summons,
together with a copy thereof, may be sent for service on the defendant, to any Court in that country (not
being the High Court) having jurisdiction in the place where the defendant resides :
Provided further that where any such defendant is a public officer 3[in Bangladesh or Pakistan (not
belonging to the Bangladesh or, as the case may be, Pakistan military, naval or air forces)] or is a servant
of a railway company or local authority in that country, the summons, together with a copy thereof,
maybe sent for service on the defendant, to such officer or authority in that country as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf.]
4[26. Service in foreign territory through Political Agent or Court.—Where—
(a) in the exercise of any foreign jurisdiction vested in the Central Government, a Political Agent
has been appointed, or a Court has been established or continued, with power to serve a summons,
issued by a Court under this Code, in any foreign territory in which the defendant actually and
voluntarily resides, carries on business or personally works for gain, or
(b) the Central Government has, by notification in the Official Gazette, declared in respect of
any Court situate in any such territory and not established or continued in the exercise of any such
jurisdiction as aforesaid, that service by such Court of any summons issued by a Court under this
Code shall be deemed to be valid service,
the summons may be sent to such Political Agent or Court, by post, or otherwise, or if so directed by the
Central Government, through the Ministry of that Government dealing with foreign affairs, or in such
other manner as may be specified by the Central Government for the purpose of being served upon the
defendant; and, if the Political Agent or Court returns the summons with an endorsement purporting to
have been made by such Political Agent or by the Judge or other officer of the Court to the effect that the
summons has been served on the defendant in the manner hereinbefore directed, such endorsement shall
be deemed to be evidence of service.
26A. Summonses to be sent to officers to foreign countries.—Where the Central Government has, by
notification in the Official Gazette, declared in respect of any foreign territory that summonses to be served
on defendants actually and voluntarily residing or carrying on business or personally working for gain in that
foreign territory may be sent to an officer of the Government of the foreign territory specified by the Central
Government, the summonses may be sent to such officer, through the Ministry of the Government of India
dealing with foreign affairs or in such other manner as maybe specified by the Central Government; and if
such officer returns any such summons with an endorsement purporting to have been made by him that the
summons has been served on the defendant, such endorsement shall be deemed to be evidence of service].
27. Service on civil public officer or on servant of railway company or local authority.—Where
the defendant is a public officer (not belonging to the 5[the Indians] military 6[naval or air] forces 7***),
or is the servant of a railway company or local authority, the Court may, if it appears to it that the
summons may be most conveniently so served. send it for service on the defendant to the head of the
office in which he is employed, together with a copy to be retained by the defendant.
28. Service on soldiers, sailors or airmen.—Where the defendant is a soldier, 8[sailor] 9[or airman],
the Court shall send the summons for service to his commanding officer together with a copy to be
retained by the defendant.
1. Ins. by Act 19 of 1951, s. 2.
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 53, for “resides in Pakistan,” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 55, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Subs. by s. 55, ibid., for rule 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
5. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “his Majesty’s”.
6. Subs. by Act 10 of 1927, s. 2 and the First Sch., for “or naval”.
7. The words “or His Majesty’s Indian Marine Service” omitted by Act 35 of 1934, s. 2 and Sch.
8. Ins. by s. 2 and Sch., ibid.
9. Ins. by Act 10 of 1927, s. 2 and the First Sch. I.