152
ORDER XXVII
Suits by or against the Government or Public Officers in their official capacity
1. Suits by or against Government.—In any suit by or against 1[the Government], the plaint or
written statement shall be signed by such person as the Government may, by general or special order,
appoint in this behalf, and shall be verified by any person whom the Government may so appoint and who
is acquainted with the facts of the case.
2. Persons authorized to act for Government.—Persons being ex officio or otherwise authorized to
act for the Government in respect of any judicial proceeding shall be deemed to be recognized agents by
whom appearances, acts and applications under this Code may be made or done on behalf of the
Government.
3. Plaints in suits by or against Government.—In suits by or 2[against the Government], instead of
inserting in the plaint the name and description and place of residence of the plaintiff or defendant, it shall
be sufficient to insert 1[the appropriate name as provided in section 79 3***].
4[4. Agent for Government to receive process.—The Government pleader in any Court shall be the
agent of the Government for the purpose of receiving processes against the Government issued by such
Court].
5. Fixing of day for appearance on behalf of Government.—The Court, in fixing the day for 1[the
Government] to answer to the plaint, shall allow a reasonable time for the necessary communication with
the Government through the proper channel, and for the issue of instructions to the 5[Government pleader]
to appear and answer on behalf of 6[the Government] 7***, and may extend the time at its discretion 8[but
the time so extended shall not exceed two months in the aggregate].
8[5A. Government to be joined as a party in a suit against a public officer.—Where a suit is
instituted against a public officer for damages or other relief in respect of any act alleged to have been
done by him in his official capacity, the Government shall be joined as a party to the suit.
5B. Duty of Court in suits against the Government or a public officer to assist in arriving at a
settlement.—(1) In every suit or proceeding to which the Government, or a public officer acting in his
official capacity, is a party, it shall be the duty of the Court to make, in the first instance, every
endeavour, where it is possible to do so consistently with the nature and circumstances of the case, to
assist the parties in arriving at a settlement in respect of the subject-matter of the suit.
(2) If, in any such suit or proceeding, at any stage, it appears to the court that there is a reasonable
possibility of a settlement between the parties, the Court may adjourn the proceeding for such period as it
thinks fit, to enable attempts to be made to effect such a settlement.
(3) The power conferred under sub-rule (2) is in addition to any other power of the Court to adjourn
proceedings.].
6. Attendance of person able to answer questions relating to suit against Government.—The
Court may also, in any case in which the 5[Government pleader] is not accompanied by any person on the
part of 1[the Government] who may be able to answer any material questions relating to the suit, direct the
attendance of such a person.
1. Subs. by A. O. 1937, for “the Secretary of State for India in Council”.
2. Subs. ibid., for “against the Secretary of State for India in Council".
3. The words ‘or’ if the suit is against the Secretary of State, the words “the Secretary of State” omitted by the A.O. 1948.
4. Subs. by the A. O. 1937, for rule 4.
5. Subs. by the A. O. 1950, for “Crown pleader” which had been subs. by the A. O. 1937, for “Government pleader”.
6. Subs. by the A. O. 1937, for “the said Secretary of State, for India in Council”.
7. The words. “or the Government,” omitted by the A. O. 1948.
8. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 76 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).