149
be evidence in the suit and shall form part of the record; but the Court or, with the permission of the Court,
any of the parties to the suit may examine the Commissioner personally in open Court touching any of
the matters referred to him or mentioned in his report, or as to his report, or as to the manner in which he
has made the investigation.
(3)Where the Court is for any reason dissatisfied with the proceedings of the Commissioner, it may
direct such further inquiry to be made as it shall think fit.
1[Commissions for scientific investigation, performance of ministerial act and sale of movable
property
10A. Commission for scientific investigation.—(1) Where any question arising in a suit involves any
scientific investigation which cannot, in the opinion of the Court, be conveniently conducted before the
Court, the Court may, if it thinks it necessary or expedient in the interests of justice so to do, issue a
commission to such person as it thinks fit, directing him to inquire into such question and report thereon to
the Court.
(2)The provisions of rule 10 of this Order shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a Commissioner
appointed under this rule as they apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under rule 9.
10B. Commission for performance of a ministerial act.—(1) Where any question arising in a suit
involves the performance of any ministerial act which cannot, in the opinion of the Court, be conveniently
performed before the Court, the Court may, if for reasons to be recorded, it is of opinion that it is
necessary or expedient in the interests of justice so to do, issue a commission to such person as it thinks
fit, directing him to perform that ministerial act and report thereon to the Court.
(2) The provisions of rule 10 of this Order shall apply in relation to a commissioner appointed under
this rule as they apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under rule 9.
10C. Commission for the sale of movable property.—(1) Where, in any suit, it becomes necessary
to sell any movable property which is in the custody of the Court pending the determination of the suit
and which cannot be conveniently preserved, the Court may, if, for reasons to be recorded, it is of opinion
that it is necessary or expedient in the interests of justice so to do, issue a commission to such person as it
thinks fit, directing him to conduct such sale and report thereon to the Court.
(2) The provisions of rule 10 of this Order shall apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under
this rule as they apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under rule 9.
(3) Every such sale shall be held, as far as may be, in accordance with the procedure prescribed for
the sale of movable property in execution of a decree.]
Commissions to examine accounts
11A. Commission to examine or adjust accounts.—In any suit in which an examination or
adjustment of the accounts is necessary, the Court may issue a commission to such person as it thinks fit
directing him to make such examination or adjustment.
12A. Court to give Commissioner necessary instructions.—(1) The Court shall furnish the
Commissioner with such part of the proceedings and such instructions as appear necessary, and the
instructions shall distinctly specify whether the commissioner is merely to transmit the proceedings which
he may hold on the inquiry, or also to report his own opinion on the point referred for his examination.
(2) Proceedings and report to be evidence. Court may direct further inquiry.—The proceedings
and report (if any) of the Commissioner shall be evidence in the suit, but where the Court has reason to be
dissatisfied with them, it may direct such further inquiry as it shall think fit.
Commissions to make partitions
13. Commission to make partition of immovable property—Where a preliminary decree for partition
has been passed, the Court may, in any case not provided for by section 54, issue a commission to such
person as it thinks fit to make the partition or separation according to the rights as declared in such decree.
14. Procedure of Commissioner.—(1) The Commissioner shall, after such inquiry as may be necessary,
divide the property into as many shares as may be directed by the order under which the commission was
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 75 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).