106
order for the attachment of his property to such amount as it thinks fit, not exceeding the amount of the
costs of attachment and of any fine which may be imposed under rule 12:
Provided that no Court of Small Causes shall make an order for the attachment of immovable property.
11. If witness appears, attachment may be withdrawn.—Where, at any time after the attachment
of his property, such person appears and satisfies the Court,—
(a) that he did not, without lawful excuse, fail to comply with the summons or intentionally avoid
service, and,
(b) where he has failed to attend at the time and place named in a proclamation issued under the
last preceding rule, that he had no notice of such proclamation in time to attend,
the Court shall direct that the property be released from attachment, and shall make such order as to the
costs of the attachment as it thinks fit.
12. Procedure if witness fails to appear.—1[(1)] The Court may, where such person does not appear,
or appears but fails so to satisfy the Court, impose upon him such fine not exceeding five hundred rupees
as it thinks fit, having regard to his condition in life and all the circumstances of the case, and may order
his property, or any part thereof, to be attached and sold or, if already attached under rule 10, to be sold for
the purpose of satisfying all costs of such attachment, together with the amount of the said fine, if any:
Provided that, if the person whose attendance is required pays into Court the costs and fine aforesaid,
the Court shall order the property to be released from attachment.
2[(2) Notwithstanding that the Court has not issued a proclamation under sub-rule (2) of rule 10, nor
issued a warrant nor ordered attachment under sub-rule (3) of that rule, the Court may impose fine under
sub-rule (1) of this rule after giving notice to such person to show cause why the fine should not be
imposed.]
13. Mode of attachment.—The provisions with regard to the attachment and sale of property in the
execution of a decree shall, so far as they are applicable, be deemed to apply to any attachment and sale
under this Order as if the person whose property is so attached were a judgment-debtor.
14. Court may of its own accord summon as witnesses strangers to suit.—Subject to the
provisions of this Code as to attendance and appearance and to any law for the time being in force, where
the Court at any time thinks it necessary 3[to examine any person, including a party to the suit] and not
called as a witness by a party to the suit, the Court may, of its own motion, cause such person to be
summoned as a witness to give evidence, or to produce any document in his possession, on a day to be
appointed, and may examine him as a witness or require him to produce such document.
15. Duty of persons summoned to give evidence or produce document.—Subject as last aforesaid,
whoever is summoned to appear and give evidence in a suit shall attend at the time and place named in
the summons for that purpose, and whoever is summoned to produce a document shall either attend to
produce it, or cause it to be produced, at such time and place.
16. When they may depart.—(1) A person so summoned and attending shall, unless the Court
otherwise directs, attend at each hearing until the suit has been disposed of.
(2) On the application of either party and the payment through the Court of all necessary expenses (if
any), the Court may require any person so summoned and attending to furnish security to attend at the
next or any other hearing or until the suit is disposed of and, in default of his furnishing such security,
may order him to be detained in the civil prison.
1. Rule 12 renumbered as sub-rule (1) by Act 104 of 1976, s. 66 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 66, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 66, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).