74
1[Provided that nothing in this rule shall apply to non-joinder of a necessary party.]
10. Suit in name of wrong plaintiff.—(1) Where a suit has been instituted in the name of the wrong
person as plaintiff or where it is doubtful whether it has been instituted in the name of the right plaintiff,
the Court may at any stage of the suit, if satisfied that the suit has been instituted through a bona fide
mistake, and that it is necessary for the determination of the real matter in dispute so to do, order any
other person to be substituted or added as plaintiff upon such terms as the Court thinks just.
(2) Court may strike out or add parties.—The Court may at any stage of the proceedings, either
upon or without the application of either party, and on such terms as may appear to the Court to be just,
order that the name of any party improperly joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, be struck out, and
that the name of any person who ought to have been jointed, whether as plaintiff or defendant, or whose
presence before the Court may be necessary in order to enable the Court effectually and completely to
adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in the suit, be added.
(3) No person shall be added as a plaintiff suing without a next friend or as the next friend of a
plaintiff under any disability without his consent.
(4) Where defendant added, plaint to be amended.—Where a defendant is added, the plaint shall,
unless the Court otherwise directs, be amended in such manner as may be necessary, and amended copies
of the summons and of the plaint shall be served on the new defendant and, if the Court thinks fit, on the
original defendant
(5) Subject to the provisions of the2Indian Limitation Act, 1877 (XV of 1877), section 22, the
proceedings as against any person added as defendant shall be deemed to have begun only on the service
of the summons.
3[10A. Power of Court to request any pleader to address it.—The Court may, in its discretion.
request any pleader to address it as to any interest which is likely to be affected by its decision on any
matter in issue in any suit or proceeding, if the party having the interest which is likely to be so affected is
not represented by any pleader.]
11. Conduct of suit.—The Court may give the conduct of 4[a suit] to such persons as it deems proper.
12. Appearance of one of several plaintiffs or defendants for others.—(1) Where there are more
plaintiffs than one, any one or more of them may be authorized by any other of them to appear, plead or
act for such other in any proceeding; and in like manner, where there are more defendants than one, any
one or more of them may be authorized by any other of them to appear, plead or act for such other in any
proceeding.
(2) The authority shall be in writing signed by the party giving it and shall be filed in Court.
13. Objections as to non-joinder or misjoinder.—All objections on the ground of nonjoinder or
misjoinder of parties shall be taken at the earliest possible opportunity and, in all cases where issues are
settled, at or before such settlement, unless the ground of objection has subsequently arisen, and any such
objection not so taken shall be deemed to have been waived.
ORDER II
Frame of Suit
1. Frame of suit.—Every suit shall as far as practicable be framed so as to afford ground for final
decision upon the subjects in dispute and to prevent further litigation concerning them.
1. The proviso added by Act 104 of 1976, s. 52 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. See now the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), s. 21.
3. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 52 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Subs. by s. 52, ibid., for “the suit” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).