182
by the appellant, based on his personal knowledge, stating that an order for the stay of execution of the
decree has been made by the Appellate Court shall, pending the receipt from the Appellate Court of the
order for the stay of execution or any order to the contrary, be acted upon by the Court of first instance.]
(2) Stay by Court which passed the decree.—Where an application is made for stay of execution of
an appealable decree before the expiration of the time allowed for appealing therefrom, the Court which
passed the decree may on sufficient cause being shown order the execution to be stayed.
(3) No order for stay of execution shall be made under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) unless the Court
making it is satisfied—
(a) that substantial loss may result to the party applying for stay of execution unless the order is
made;
(b) that the application has been made without unreasonable delay; and
(c) that security has been given by the applicant for the due performance of such decree or order
as may ultimately be binding upon him.
(4) 1[Subject to the provision of sub-rule (3)], the Court may make an ex parte order for stay of
execution pending the hearing of the application.
2[(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing sub-rules, where the appellant fails to
make the deposit or furnish the security specified in sub-rule (3) of rule 1, the Court shall not make an
order staying the execution of the decree.]
(6) Security in case of order for execution of decree appealed from.—(1) Where an order is made
for the execution of a decree from which an appeal is pending, the Court which passed the decree shall,
on sufficient cause being shown by the appellant, require security to be taken for the restitution of any
property which may be or has been taken in execution of the decree or for the payment of the value of
such property and for the due performance of the decree or order of the Appellate Court, or the Appellate
Court may for like cause direct the Court which passed the decree to take such security.
(2) Where an order has been made for the sale of immovable property in execution of a decree, and an
appeal is pending from such decree, the sale shall, on the application of the judgment-debtor to the Court
which made the order, be stayed on such terms as to giving security or otherwise as the Court thinks fit
until the appeal is disposed of.
7. 3[No security to be required from the Government or a public officer in certain cases.] Rep. by
the A.O. 1937.
8. Exercise of powers in appeal from order made in execution of decree.—The powers conferred
by rules 5 and 6 shall be exercisable where an appeal may be or has been preferred not from the decree
but from an order made in execution of such decree.
Procedure on admission of appeal
4[9. Registry of memorandum of appeal.—(1) The Court from whose decree an appeal lies shall
entertain the memorandum of appeal and shall endorse thereon the date of presentation and shall register
the appeal in a book of appeal kept for that purpose.
(2) Such book shall be called the register of appeal.]
10. Appellate Court may require appellant to furnish security for costs.—(1) The Appellate
Court may in its discretion, either before the respondent is called upon to appear and answer or afterwards
on the application of the respondent, demand from the appellant security for the costs of the appeal, or of
the original suit, or of both:
Where appellant resides out of India.—Provided that the Court shall demand such security in all
cases in which the appellant is residing out of 5[India], and is not possessed of any sufficient immovable
property within 5[India] other than the property (if any) to which the appeal relates.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 87, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 87, ibid. (w.e.f 1-2-1977).
3. Order XXVII, rule 8A, supra.
4. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 31, for rule 9 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3, for “the States”.