187
1[Provided that the Appellate Court shall not make any order under section 35A in pursuance of any
objection on which the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has omitted or refused to make
such order.]
Illustration
A claims a sum of money as due to him from X or Y, and in a suit against both obtains a decree against X. X,
appeals and A and Y are respondents. The Appellate Court decides in favour of X. It has power to pass a decree
against Y.
34. Dissent to be recorded.—Where the Appeal is heard by more judges than one, any judge
dissenting from the judgment of the Court shall state in writing the decision or order which he thinks
should be passed on the appeal, and he may state his reasons for the same.
Decree in appeal
235. Date and contents of decree.—(1) The decree of the Appellate Court shall bear date the day on
which the judgment was pronounced.
(2) The decree shall contain the number of the appeal, the names and descriptions of the appellant and
respondent, and a clear specification of the relief granted or other adjudication made.
(3) The decree shall also state the amount of costs incurred in the appeal, and by whom, or out of
what property, and in what proportions such costs and the costs in the suit are to be paid.
(4) The decree shall be signed and dated by the Judge or Judges who passed it :
Judge dissenting from judgment need not sign decree.—Provided that where there are more
Judges than one and there is a difference of opinion among them, it shall not be necessary for any Judge
dissenting from the judgment of the Court to sign the decree.
36. Copies of judgment and decree to be furnished to parties.—Certified copies of the judgment and
decree in appeal shall be furnished to the parties on application to the Appellate Court and at their expense.
37. Certified copy of decree to be sent to Court whose decree appealed from.—A copy of the
judgment and of the decree, certified by the Appellate Court or such officer as it appoints in this behalf, shall
be sent to the Court which passed the decree appealed from and shall be filed with the original proceedings in
the suit, and an entry of the judgment of the Appellate Court shall be made in the register of civil suits.
ORDER XLII
Appeals from Appellate Decrees
1. Procedure.—The rules of Order XLI shall apply, so far as may be, to appeals from appellate decrees.
3[2. Power of Court to direct that the appeal be heard on the question formulated by it —At the time
of making an order under rule 11 of Order XLI for the hearing of a second appeal, the Court shall formulate
the substantial question of law as required by section 100, and in doing so, the Court may direct that the second
appeal be heard on the question so formulated and it shall not be open to the appellant to urge any other ground
in the appeal without the leave of the Court, given in accordance with the provision of section 100.
3. Application of rule 14 of Order XLI—Reference in sub-rule (4) of rule 14 of Order XLI to the
Court of first instance shall, in the case of an appeal from an appellate decree or order, be construed as a
reference to the Court to which the appeal was preferred from the original decree or order.]
1. Ins. by Act 9 of 1922, s. 4, which under s. 1(2) thereof, may be brought into force in any State by the State Government on any
specified date. The Act has been brought into force in Bombay, Bengal, U.P., Punjab, Bihar, C.P. Assam, Orissa and Tamil
Nadu.
2. This rule is not applicable to the Chief Court of Oudh in the exercise of its appellate Jurisdiction; see the Oudh Courts Act,
1925 (U.P. Act 4 of 1925), s. 16(3).
3. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 88 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).