169
those under whom he claims, and shall also, if necessary put the plaintiff in possession of the
property; and
(ii) that, if payment of the amount found or declared due under or by the preliminary decree is
not made on or before the date so fixed, or the plaintiff fails to pay, within such time as the Court
may fix, the amount adjudged due in respect of subsequent costs, charges, expenses and interest,
the defendant shall be entitled to apply for a final decree—
(a) in the case of a mortgage other than a usufructuary mortgage, a mortgage by
conditional sale, or an anomalous mortgage the terms of which provide for foreclosure only
and not for sale, that the mortgage property, be sold, or
(b) in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale or such an anomalous mortgage as
aforesaid, that the plaintiff be debarred from all right to redeem the property.
(2) The Court may, on good cause shown and upon terms to be fixed by the Court, from time to time,
at any time before the passing of a final decree for foreclosure or sale, as the case may be, extend the time
fixed for the payment of the amount found or declared due under sub-rule (1) or of the amount adjudged
due in respect of subsequent costs, charges, expenses and interest.
8. Final decree in redemption suit.—(1) Where, before a final decree debarring the plaintiff from
all right to redeem the mortgaged property has been passed or before the confirmation of a sale held in
pursuance of a final decree passed under sub-rule (3) of this rule, the plaintiff makes payment into
Court of all amounts due from him under sub-rule (1) of rule 7, the Court shall, on application made by
the plaintiff in this behalf, pass a final decree or, if such decree has been passed, an order—
(a) ordering the defendant to deliver up the documents referred to in the preliminary decree,
and, if necessary, —
(b) ordering him to re-transfer at the cost of the plaintiff the mortgaged property as directed in the
said decree,—
and, also, if necessary,—
(c) ordering him to put the plaintiff in possession of the property.
(2) Where the mortgaged property or a part thereof has been sold in pursuance of a decree passed
under sub-rule (3) of this rule, the Court shall not pass an order under sub-rule (1) of this rule, unless the
plaintiff, in addition to the amount mentioned in sub-rule (1), deposits in Court for payment to the
purchaser a sum equal to five per cent. of the amount of the purchase-money paid into Court by the
purchaser.
Where such deposit has been made, the purchaser shall be entitled to an order for repayment of the
amount of the purchase-money paid into Court by him, together with a sum equal to five per cent. thereof.
(3) Where payment in accordance with sub-rule (1) has not been made, the Court shall, on application
made by the defendant in this behalf,—
(a) in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale or of such an anomalous mortgage as is
hereinbefore referred to in rule 7, pass a final decree declaring that the plaintiff and all persons
claiming under him are debarred from all right to redeem the mortgaged property and, also, if
necessary, ordering the plaintiff to put the defendant in possession of the mortgage property; or
(b) in the case of any other mortgage, not being ausufructuary mortgage, pass final decree that
the mortgaged property or a sufficient part thereof be sold, and the proceeds of the sale (after
deduction there from of the expenses of the sale) be paid into Court and applied in payment of
what is found due to the defendant, and the balance, if any, be paid to the plaintiff or other persons
entitled to receive the same.
1[8A. Recovery of balance due on mortgage in suit for redemption.—Where the net proceeds of
any sale held under 2[rule 8] are found insufficient to pay the amount due to the defendant, the Court, 2[on
1. Ins. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 5.
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 82, for “the last preceding rule” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).