28
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed 1*** to exempt houses and other buildings (with the materials
and the sites thereof and the lands immediately appurtenant thereto and necessary for their enjoyment) from
attachment or sale in execution of decrees for rent of any such house, building, site or land 2***
3*
*
*
*
*
61. Partial exemption of agricultural produce.—The State Government 4*** may, by general or
special order published in the Official Gazette, declare that such portion of agricultural produce, or of any
class of agricultural produce, as may appear to the State Government to be necessary for the purpose of
providing until the next harvest for the due cultivation of the land and for the support of the judgment-
debtor and his family, shall, in the case of all agriculturists or of any class of agriculturists, be exempted
from liability to attachment or sale in execution of a decree.
62. Seizure of property in dwelling-house.—(I) No person executing any process under this Code
directing or authorizing seizure of movable property shall enter any dwelling-house after sunset and
before sunrise.
(2) No outer door of a dwelling-house shall be broken open unless such dwelling-house is in the
occupancy of the judgment-debtor and he refuses or in any way prevents access thereto, but when the
person executing any such process has duly gained access to any dwelling-house, he may break open the
door of any room in which he has reason to believe any such property to be.
(3) Where a room in a dwelling-house is in the actual occupancy of a woman who, according to the
customs of the country, does not appear in public, the person executing the process shall give notice to such
woman that she is at liberty to withdraw; and, after allowing reasonable time for her to withdraw and giving
her reasonable facility for withdrawing, he may enter such room for the purpose of seizing the property, using
at the same time every precaution, consistent with these provisions, to prevent its clandestine removal.
63. Property attached in execution of decrees of several Courts.—(1) Where property not in the
custody of any Court is under attachment in execution of decrees of more Courts than one, the Court which
shall receive or realize such property and shall determine any claim thereto and any objection to the attachment
thereof shall be the Court of highest grade, or, where there is no difference in grade between such Courts, the
Court under whose decree the property was first attached.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to invalidate any proceeding taken by a Court executing
one of such decrees.
5[Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-section (2), “proceeding taken by a Court” does not include
an order allowing, to a decree-holder who has purchased property at a sale held in execution of a decree,
set off to the extent of the purchase price payable by him.]
64. Private alienation of property after attachment to be void. —6[(1)] Where an attachment has
been made, any private transfer or delivery of the property attached or of any interest therein and any
payment to the judgment-debtor of any debt, dividend or other monies contrary to such attachment, shall
be void as against all claims enforceable under the attachment.
7[(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to any private transfer or delivery of the property attached or of
any interest therein, made in pursuance of any contract for such transfer or delivery entered into and
registered before the attachment.]
Explanation. —For the purpose of this section, claims enforceable under an attachment include
claims for the rateable distribution of assets.
1. The brackets and letter “(a)”, rep. by Act 10 of 1914, s. 3 and the Second Schedule.
2. The word “or” rep. by Act 10 of 1914, sec. 3 and the Second Schedule.
3. Clause (b) rep. by Act 10 of 1914, sec. 3 and the Second Schedule.
4. The words “with the previous sanction of the G.G. in C.” omitted by Act 38 of 1920, s. 2 and the First Schedule Pt 1.
5. The Explanation ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 24 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. S. 64 renumbered as sub-section (1) by Act 22 of 2002, s. 3 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
7. Ins. by s. 3, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).