104
(2) A party desirous of obtaining any summons for the attendance of any person shall file in Court an
application stating therein the purpose for which the witness is proposed to be summoned.
(3) The Court may, for reasons to be recorded, permit a party to call, whether by summoning through
Court or otherwise, any witness, other than those whose names appear in the list referred to in sub-rule (1),
if such party shows sufficient cause for the omission to mention the name of such witness in the said
list.
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), summonses referred to in this rule may be obtained by
the parties on an application to the Court or to such officer as may be appointed by the 1[Court in this
behalf within five days of presenting the list of witnesses under sub-rule (1).]
2[1A. Production of witnesses without summons.—A Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3) of
rule 1, any party to the suit may, without applying for summons under rule 1,bring any witness to give
evidence or to produce documents.]
2. Expenses of witness to be paid into Court on applying for summons.—(1) The party applying for
a summons shall, before the summons is granted and within a period to be fixed 3[which shall not be later
than seven days from the date of making applications under sub-rule (4) of rule 1] pay into Court such a sum
of money as appears to the Court to be sufficient to defray the travelling and other expenses of the person
summoned in passing to and from the Court in which he is required to attend, and for one day's attendance.
(2) Experts.—In determining the amount payable under this rule, the Court may, in the case of any
person summoned to give evidence as an expert, allow reasonable remuneration for the time occupied
both in giving evidence and in performing any work of an expert character necessary for the case.
(3) Scale of expenses.—Where the Court is subordinate to a High Court, regard shall be had, in
fixing the scale of such expenses, to any rules made in that behalf.
4[(4) Expenses to be directly paid to witnesses.—Where the summons is served directly by the party on
a witness. the expenses referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be paid to the witness by the party or his agent.]
3. Tender of expenses to witness.—The sum so paid into Court shall be tendered to the person sum-
moned, at the time of serving the summons, if it can be served personally.
4. Procedure where insufficient sum paid in.—(1) Where it appears to the Court or to such officer as
it appoints in this behalf that the sum paid into Court is not sufficient to cover such expenses or reasonable
remuneration, the Court may direct such further sum to be paid to the person summoned as appears to be
necessary on that account, and, in case of default in payment, may order such sum to be levied by
attachment and sale of the movable property of the party obtaining the summons, or the Court may
discharge the person summoned without requiring him to give evidence; or may both order such levy and
discharge such person as aforesaid.
(2) Expenses of witnesses detained more than one day.—Where it is necessary to detain the person
summoned for a longer period than one day, the Court may, from time to time, order the party at whose
instance he was summoned to pay into Court such sum as is sufficient to defray the expenses of his detention
for such further period, and, in default of such deposit being made, may order such sum to be levied by
attachment and sale of the movable property of such party; or the Court may discharge the person summoned
without requiring him to give evidence; or may both order such levy and discharge such person as aforesaid.
5. Time, place and purpose of attendance to be specified in summons.—Every summons for the
attendance of a person to give evidence or to produce a document shall specify the time and place at
which he is required to attend, and also whether his attendance is required for the purpose of giving
evidence or to produce a document, or for both purposes; and any particular document, which the person
summoned is called on to produce, shall be described in the summons with reasonable accuracy.
6. Summons to produce document.—Any person may be summoned to produce a document,
without being summoned to give evidence; and any person summoned merely to produce a document
1. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 25, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 66, for rule 1A (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by Act 46 of 1999. s. 25 (w.e.f. 7-2002).
4. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 66 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).