19
(2) No Court shall make any such order for the payment of an amount exceeding 1[three thousand
rupees] or exceeding the limits of its pecuniary jurisdiction, whichever amount is less:
Provided that where the pecuniary limits of the jurisdiction of any Court exercising the jurisdiction of
a Court of Small Causes under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (9 of 1887), 2[or under a
corresponding law in force in 3[any part of India to which the said Act does not extend]] and not being a
Court constituted 4[under such Act or law], are less than two hundred and fifty rupees, the High Court
may empower such Court to award as costs under this section any amount not exceeding two hundred and
fifty rupees and not exceeding those limits by more than one hundred rupees:
Provided, further, that the High Court may limit the amount which any Court or class of Courts is
empowered to award as costs under this section.
(3) No person against whom an order has been made under this section shall, by reason thereof, be
exempted from any criminal liability in respect of any claim or defence made by him.
(4) The amount of any compensation awarded under this section in respect of a false or vexatious
claim or defence shall be taken into account in any subsequent suit for damages or compensation in
respect of such claim or defence.]
5[35B. Costs for causing delay.—(1) If, on any date fixed for the hearing of a suit or for taking any
step therein, a party to the suit—
(a) fails to take the step which he was required by or under this Code to take on that date, or
(b) obtains an adjournment for taking such step or for producing evidence or on any other ground,
the Court may, for reasons to be recorded, make an order requiring such party to pay to the other party
such costs as would, in the opinion of the Court, be reasonably sufficient to reimburse the other party in
respect of the expenses incurred by him in attending the Court on that date, and payment of such costs, on
the date next following the date of such order, shall be a condition precedent to the further prosecution
of—
(a) the suit by the plaintiff, where the plaintiff was ordered to pay such costs,
(b) the defence by the defendant, where the defendant was ordered to pay such costs.
Explanation.—Where separate defences have been raised by the defendant or groups of defendants,
payment of such costs shall be a condition precedent to the further prosecution of the defence by such
defendants or groups of defendants as have been ordered by the Court to pay such costs.
(2) The costs, ordered to be paid under sub-section (1), shall not, if paid, be included in the costs
awarded in the decree passed in the suit; but, if such costs are not paid, a separate order shall be drawn up
indicating the amount of such costs and the names and addresses of the persons by whom such costs are
payable and the order so drawn up shall be executable against such persons. ]
PART II
EXECUTION
GENERAL
6[36. Application to orders.—The provisions of this Code relating to the execution of decrees
(including provisions relating to payment under a decree) shall, so far as they are applicable, be deemed
to apply to the execution of orders (including payment under an order).]
37. Definition of Court which passed a decree.—The expression “Court which passed a decree,” or
words to that effect, shall, in relation to the execution of decrees, unless there is anything repugnant in the
subject or context, be deemed to include,—
(a) where the decree to be executed has been passed in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, the
Court of first instance, and
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 14(ii), for “one thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 7 (w.e.f. 1-4-1951).
3. Subs by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 2) Order, 1956, for “a Part B State”.
4. Subs by Act 2 of 1951, s. 7, for “under that Act” (w.e.f. 1-4-1951).
5. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 15 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Subs. by s. 16, ibid., for section 36 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).