154
the nature mentioned in rule l, is involved, the Court shall not proceed to determine that question except
after giving notice—
(a) to the Government pleader, if the question concern the Government, or
(b) to the authority which issued the statutory instrument, if the question concerns an authority
other than Government.]
2. Court may add Government as party.—The Court may at any stage of the proceedings order that
the Central Government or a State Government shall be added as a defendant in any suit involving 1[any
such question as is referred to 2[in clause (1) of Article 132 read with Article 147, of the Constitution]], if
3[the Attorney General for India] or the Advocate-General of the State, as the case may be, whether upon
receipt of notice under rule 1, or otherwise, applies for such addition and the Court is satisfied that such
addition is necessary or desirable for the satisfactory determination of the question of law involved.
4[2A. Power of Court to add Government or other authority as a defendant in a suit relating to the
validity of any statutory instrument.—The Court may, at any stage of the proceedings in any suit involving
any such question as is referred to in rule 1A, order that the Government or other authority shall be added as a
defendant if the Government pleader or the pleader appearing in the case for the authority which issued the
instrument, as the case may be, whether upon receipt of notice under rule lA or otherwise, applies for such
addition, and the Court is satisfied that such addition is necessary or desirable for the satisfactory
determination of the question.]
5[3. Costs.—Where, under rule 2 or rule 2A the Government or any other authority is added as a
defendant in a suit, the Attorney-General, Advocate-General, or Government Pleader or Government or
other authority shall not be entitled to, or liable for, costs in the Court which ordered the addition unless
the Court, having regard to all the circumstances of the case for any special reason, otherwise orders.]
4. Application of Order to appeals.—In the application of this Order to appeals the word
“defendant” shall be held to include a respondent and the word “suit” an appeal.]
4[Explanation—In this Order, “statutory instrument” means a rule, notification, bye-law, order,
scheme or form made as specified under any enactment.]
ORDER XXVIII
Suits by or against military 6[or Naval] men 7[or Airmen]
1. Officers, soldiers, sailors or airmen who cannot obtain leave may authorise any person to sue or
defend for them.—(1)Where any officer, 8[soldier], 6[sailor] or airman] actually 9[serving under the
Government] in 10[such] capacity is a party to a suit, and cannot obtain leave of absence for the purpose of
prosecuting or defending the suit in person, he may authorize any person to sue or defend in his stead.
1. Subs. by the A. O. 1948, for “a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Government of India Act, 1935 or any
Order-in-Council made thereunder”.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “in sub-section (1) of section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935”.
3. Subs., ibid., for “the Advocate-General of India”.
4. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 77 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
5. Subs. by s. 77, ibid., for rule 3 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Ins. by Act 35 of 1934, s. 2 and Sch.
7. Ins. by Act 10 of 1927, s. 2 and the First Sch.
8. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., and the First Sch., for “or soldier” and “or a soldier”.
9. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “serving the Government”.
10. Subs. by Act 35 of 1934, s. 2 and Sch., for “a military or air force”.