194
6. Power to refer to High Court questions as to jurisdiction in small causes.—(1) Where at any
time before judgment a Court in which a suit has been instituted doubts whether the suit is cognizable by
a Court of Small Causes or is not so cognizable, it may submit the record to the High Court with a
statement of its reasons for the doubt as to the nature of the suit.
(2) On receiving the record and statement, the High Court may order the Court either to proceed with
the suit or to return the plaint for presentation to such other Court as it may in its order declare to be
competent to take cognizance of the suit.
7. Power to District Court to submit for revision proceeding had under mistake as to
jurisdiction in small causes.—(1) Where it appears to a District Court that a Court subordinate thereto
has, by reason of erroneously holding a suit to be cognizable by a Court of Small Causes or not to be so
cognizable, failed to exercise a jurisdiction vested in it by law, or exercised a jurisdiction not so vested,
the District Court may, and if required by a party shall, submit the record to the High Court with a
statement of its reasons for considering the opinion of the Subordinate Court with respect to the nature of
the suit to be erroneous.
(2) On receiving the record and statement the High Court may make such order in the case as it
thinks fit.
(3) With respect to any proceedings subsequent to decree in any case submitted to the High Court
under this rule, the High Court may make such order as in the circumstance appears to it to be just and
proper.
(4) A Court subordinate to a District Court shall comply with any requisition which the District Court
may make for any record or information for the purposes of this rule.
ORDER XLVII
Review
1. Application for review of judgment.—(1) Any person considering himself aggrieved—
(a) by a decree or order from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been
preferred,
(b) by a decree or order from which no appeal is allowed, or
(c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes,
and who, from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due
diligence was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was
passed or order made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record or for any
other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or order made against him, may
apply for a review of judgment to the Court which passed the decree or made the order.
(2) A party who is not appealing from a decree or order may apply for a review of judgment
notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal by some other party except where the ground of such appeal is
common to the applicant and the appellant, or when, being respondent, he can present to the Appellate
Court the case on which he applied for the review.
1[Explanation.—The fact that the decision on a question of law on which the judgment of the Court is
based has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior Court in any other case,
shall not be a ground for the review of such judgment.]
2. [To whom applications for review may be made.]—Rep. by the Code of Civil Procedure
(Amendment) Act,1956 (66 of 1956), s. 14.
3. Form of applications for review.—The provisions as to the form of preferring appeals shall
apply, mutatis mutandis, to applications for review.
4. Application where rejected.—(1) Where it appears to the Court that there is not sufficient ground
for a review, it shall reject the application.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 92 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).