93
(b) such defendant is avoiding service of process, or
(c) there is any other sufficient cause for extending the time,
in which case the Court may extend the time for making such application for such period as it thinks fit.]
(2) In such case the plaintiff may (subject to the law of limitation) bring a fresh suit.
6. Procedure when only plaintiff appears.—(1) Where the plaintiff appears and the defendant does
not appear when the suit is called on for hearing, then—
1[(a) When summons duly served.—if it is proved that the summons was duly served, the Court
may make an order that the suit shall be heard ex parte;]
(b) When summons not duly served.—if it is not proved that the summons was duly served, the
Court shall direct a second summons to be issued and served on the defendant;
(c) When summons served but not in due time.—if it is proved that the summons was served
on the defendant, but not in sufficient time to enable him to appear and answer on the day fixed in the
summons,
the Court shall postpone the hearing of the suit to a future day to be fixed by the Court, and shall direct
notice of such day to be given to the defendant.
(2) Where it is owing to the plaintiff's default that the summons was not duly served or was not served
in sufficient time, the Court shall order the plaintiff to pay the costs occasioned by the postponement.
7. Procedure where defendant appears on day of adjourned hearing and assigns good cause for
previous non-appearance.—Where the Court has adjourned the hearing of the suit, ex parte, and the
defendant, at or before such hearing appears and assigns good cause for his previous non-appearance, he may,
upon such terms as the Court directs as to costs or otherwise, be heard in answer to the suit as if he had
appeared on the day fixed for his appearance.
8. Procedure where defendant only appears.—Where the defendant appears and the plaintiff does
not appear when the suit is called on for hearing, the Court shall make an order that the suit be dismissed,
unless the defendant admits the claim, or part thereof, in which case the Court shall pass a decree against
the defendant upon such admission, and, where part only of the claim has been admitted, shall dismiss the
suit so far as it relates to the remainder.
9. Decree against plaintiff by default bars fresh suit.—(1) Where a suit is wholly or partly dis-
missed under rule 8, the plaintiff shall be precluded from bringing a fresh suit in respect of the same cause
of action. But he may apply for an order to set the dismissal aside, and if he satisfies the Court that there
was sufficient cause for his non-appearance when the suit was called on for hearing, the Court shall make
an order setting aside the dismissal upon such terms as to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall
appoint a day for proceeding with the suit.
(2) No order shall be made under this rule unless notice of the application has been served on the
opposite party.
10. Procedure in case of non-attendance of one or more of several plaintiff's.—Where there are
more plaintiffs than one, and one or more of them appear and the others do not appear, the Court may, at
the instance of the plaintiff or plaintiff’s appearing, permit the suit to proceed in the same way as if all the
plaintiff’s had appeared, or make such order as it thinks fit.
11. Procedure in case of non-attendance of one or more of several defendants.—Where there are
more defendants than one, and one or more of them appear and the others do not appear, the suit shall
proceed, and the Court shall, at the time of pronouncing judgment, make such order as it thinks fit with
respect to the defendants who do not appear.
12. Consequence of non-attendance, without sufficient cause shown, of party ordered to appear
in person.—Where a plaintiff or defendant, who has been ordered to appear in person, does not appear in
person, or show sufficient cause to the satisfaction of the court for failing so to appear, he shall be subject
to all provisions of the foregoing rules applicable to plaintiffs and defendants, respectively, who do not
appear.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 59, for cl. (a) (w.e.f 1-2-1977).