78
ORDER V
Issue and service of summons
Issue of Summons
1. Summons.—1[(1) When a suit has been duly instituted, a summons may be issued to the defendant
to appear and answer the claim and to file the written statement of his defence, if any, within thirty days
from the date of service of summons on that defendant :
Provided that no such summons shall be issued when a defendant has appeared at the presentation of
plaint and admitted the plaintiffs claim:
Provided further that where the defendant fails to file the written statement within the said period of thirty
days, he shall be allowed to file the same on such other day as may be specified by the Court, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, but which shall not be later than ninety days from the date of service of summons.].
(2) A defendant to whom a summons has been issued under sub-rule (1) may appear—
(a) in person, or
(b) by a pleader duly instructed and able to answer all material questions relating to the suit, or
(c) by a pleader accompanied by some person able to answer all such questions.
(3) Every such summons shall be signed by the Judge or such officer as he appoints, and shall be
sealed with the seal of the Court.
2[2. Copy of plaint annexed to summons.—Every summon shall be accompanied by a copy of the
plaint.]
3. Court may order defendant or plaintiff to appear in person.—(1) Where the court sees reason
to require the personal appearance of the defendant, the summons shall order him to appear in person in
Court on the day therein specified.
(2) Where the Court sees reason to require the personal appearance of the plaintiff on the same day, it
shall make an order for such appearance.
4. No party to be ordered to appear in person unless resident within certain limits.—No party
shall be ordered to appear in person unless he resides—
(a) within the local limits of the Court's ordinary original jurisdiction, or
(b) without such limits but at place less than fifty or (where there is railway or steamer
communication or other established public conveyance for five-sixths of the distance between the
place where he resides and the place where the Court is situate) less than two hundred miles distance
from the court-house.
5. Summons to be either to settle issues or for final disposal.—The Court shall determine, at the
time of issuing the summons, whether it shall be for the settlement of issues only, or for the final disposal
of the suit; and the summons shall contain a direction accordingly:
Provided that, in every suit heard by a Court of Small Causes, the summons shall be for the final
disposal of the suit.
6. Fixing day for appearance of defendant.—The day 3[under sub-rule (1) of rule 1] shall be
fixed with reference to the current business of the Court, the place of residence of the defendant and the
time necessary for the service of the summons; and the day shall be so fixed as to allow the defendant
sufficient time to enable him to appear and answer on such day.
7. Summons to order defendant to produce documents relied on by him.—The summons to
appear and answer shall order the defendant to produce 3[all documents or copies thereof specified in
rule lA of Order VIII] in his possession or power upon which he intends to rely in support of his case.
1. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 6, for sub-rule (1) (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 15, for sub-rule (2) (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
3. Subs. by s. 15, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).