40
105. Other orders.—(1) Save as otherwise expressly provided, no appeal shall lie from any order
made by a Court in the exercise of its original or appellate jurisdiction; but where a decree is appealed
from, any error, defect or irregularity in any order, affecting the decision of the case, may be set forth as a
ground of objection in the memorandum of appeal.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any party aggrieved by an order of
remand 1*** from which an appeals lies does not appeal therefrom, he shall thereafter be precluded from
disputing its correctness.
106. What Courts to hear appeals.—Where an appeal from any order is allowed it shall lie to the Court
to which an appeal would lie from the decree in the suit in which such order was made, or where such order is
made by a Court (not being a High Court) in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, then to the High Court.
GENERALPROVISIONS RELATING TO APPEALS
107. Powers of Appellate Court.—(1) Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
prescribed, an Appellate Court shall have power—
(a) to determine a case finally;
(b) to remand a case;
(c) to frame issues and refer them for trial;
(d) to take additional evidence or to require such evidence to be taken.
(2) Subject as aforesaid, the Appellate Court shall have the same powers and shall perform as nearly
as may be the same duties as are conferred and imposed by this Code on Courts of original jurisdiction in
respect of suits instituted therein.
108. Procedure in appeals from appellate decrees and orders.—The provisions of this Part
relating to appeals from original decrees shall, so far as may be, apply to appeals—
(a) from appellate decrees, and
(b) from orders made under this Code or under any special or local law in which a different
procedure is not provided.
APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT
2[109. When appeals lie to the Supreme Court.—Subject to the provisions in Chapter IV of Part V of
the Constitution and such rules as may, from time to time, be made by the Supreme Court regarding appeals
from the Courts of India, and to the provisions hereinafter contained, an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court
from any judgment, decree or final order in a civil proceeding of a High Court, if the High Court certifies—
(i) that the case involves a substantial question of law of general importance; and
(ii) that in the opinion of the High Court the said question needs to be decided by the Supreme Court.]
110. [Value of subject-matter.] Omitted by the Code of civil Procedure (Amendment)
Act, 1973 (49 of 1973, s. 3
111. [Bar of certain appeals.] omitted by the A.O. 1950.
3[111A. [Appeals to Federal Court.] Rep. by the Federal Court Act, 1941 (21 of 1941), s. 2.
112. Savings.—4[(1) Nothing contained in this Code shall be deemed—
(a) to affect the powers of the Supreme Court under article 136 or any other provision of the
Constitution; or
(b) to interfere with any rules made by the Supreme Court, and for the time being in force for the
presentation of appeals to that Court, or their conduct before that Court.]
(2) Nothing herein contained applies to any matter of criminal or admiralty or vice-admiralty
jurisdiction or to appeals from orders and decrees of Prize Courts.
1. Certain words omitted by Act 104 of 1976, s. 42, (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 49 of 1973, s. 2, for section 109.
3. Ins. by the A.O. 1937.
4. Subs, by the A.O. 1950, for the former sub-section (1).