20
(b) where the Court of first instance has ceased to exist or to have jurisdiction to execute it, the
Court which, if the suit wherein the decree was passed was instituted at the time of making the
application for the execution of the decree, would have jurisdiction to try such suit.
1[Explanation.—The Court of first instance does not cease to have jurisdiction to execute a decree
merely on the ground that after the institution of the suit wherein the decree was passed or after the passing
of the decree, any area has been transferred from the jurisdiction of that Court to the jurisdiction of any other
Court; but, in every such case, such other Court shall also have jurisdiction to execute the decree, if at the
time of making the application for execution of the decree it would have jurisdiction to try the said suit.]
COURTS BY WHICH DECREES MAY BE EXECUTED
38. Court by which decree may be executed.—A decree may be executed either by the Court which
passed it, or by the Court to which it is sent for execution.
39. Transfer of decree.—(1) The Court which passed a decree may, on the application of the decree-
holder, send it for execution to another Court 2[of competent jurisdiction],—
(a) if the person against whom the decree is passed actually and voluntarily resides or carries on
business, or personally works for gain, within the local limits of the jurisdiction of such other Court, or
(b) if such person has not property within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court which
passed the decree sufficient to satisfy such decree and has property within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of such other Court, or
(c) if the decree directs the sale or delivery of immovable property situate outside the local limits of
the jurisdiction of the Court which passed it, or
(d) if the Court which passed the decree considers for any other reason, which it shall record in
writing, that the decree should be executed by such other Court.
(2) The Court which passed a decree may of its own motion send it for execution to any subordinate
Court of competent jurisdiction.
3[(3) For the purposes of this section, a Court shall be deemed to be a Court of competent jurisdiction if, at
the time of making the application for the transfer of decree to it, such Court would have jurisdiction to try the
suit in which such decree was passed.]
4[(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorise the Court which passed a decree to execute
such decree against any person or property outside the local limits of its jurisdiction.]
40. Transfer of decree to Court in another State.—Where a decree is sent for execution in another
State, it shall be sent to such Court and executed in such manner as may be prescribed by rules in force in
that State.
41. Result of execution proceedings to be certified.—The Court to which a decree is sent for
execution shall certify to the Court which passed it the fact of such execution, or where the former Court
fails to execute the same the circumstances attending such failure.
42. Powers of Court in executing transferred decree. —5[(1)] The Court executing a decree sent to it shall
have the same powers in executing such decree as if it had been passed by itself. All persons is disobeying or
obstructing the execution of the decree shall be punishable by such Court in the same manner as if it had passed
the decree. And its order in executing such decree shall be subject to the same rules in respect of appeal as
if the decree had passed by itself.
6[(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), the powers of the Court
under that sub-section shall include the following powers of the Court which passed the decree, namely:—
(a) power to send the decree for execution to another Court under section 39;
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 17, (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 18, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 18, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Ins. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 2 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. S. 42 renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section by Act 104 of 1976, s. 19, (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Ins. by s. 19, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).