157
(3) If, on such application, the Court holds that he was a partner at the material time, that shall not
preclude the person from filing a defence denying the liability of the firm in respect of the claim against
the defendant.
(4) If the Court, however, holds that such person was not a partner of the firm and was not liable as
such that shall not preclude the plaintiff from otherwise serving a summons on the firm and proceeding
with the suit; but in that event, the plaintiff shall be precluded from alleging the liability of that person as
a partner of the firm in execution of any decree that may be passed against the firm.]
9. Suits between co-partners.—This Order shall apply to suits between a firm and one or more of
the partners therein and to suits between firms having one or more partners in common; but no execution
shall be issued in such suits except by leave of the Court, and, on an application for leave to issue such
execution, all such accounts and inquiries may be directed to be taken and made and directions given as
may be just.
1[10. Suit against person carrying on business in name other than his own.—Any person carrying
on business in a name or style other than his own name, or a Hindu undivided family carrying on business
under any name, may be sued in such name or style as if it were a firm name, and, insofar as the nature of
such case permits, all rules under this Order shall apply accordingly.]
ORDER XXXI
Suits by or against Trustees, executors and Administrators
1. Representation of beneficiaries in suits concerning property vested in trustees etc.—In all
suits concerning property vested in a trustee, executor or administrator, where the contention is between
the persons beneficially interested in such property and a third person, the trustee, executor or
Administrator shall represent the persons so interested, and it shall not ordinarily be necessary to make
them parties to the suit. But the Court may, if it thinks fit, order them or any of them to be made parties.
2. Joiner of trustees, executors and administrators.—Where there are several trustees, executors or
administrators, they shall all be made parties to a suit against one or more of them:
Provided that the executors who have not proved their testator’s will, and trustees, executors and
administrators outside 2[India], need not be made parties.
3. Husband of married executrix not to join.—Unless the Court directs otherwise, the husband of a
married trustee, administratrix or executrix shall not as such be a party to a suit by or against her.
ORDER XXXII
Suits by or against Minors and Persons of Unsound mind
1. Minor to sue by next friend.—Every suit by a minor shall be instituted in his name by a person
who in such suit shall be called the next friend of the minor.
3[Explanation.—In this Order, “minor” means a person who has not attained his majority within the
meaning of section 3 of the Indian Majority Act, 1875 (9 of 1875) where the suit relates to any of the
matters mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of section 2 of that Act or to any other matter.]
2. Where suit is instituted without next friend, plaint to be taken off the file.—(1) Where a suit is
instituted by or on behalf of a minor without a next friend, the defendant may apply to have the plaint
taken off the file, with costs to be paid by the pleader or other person by whom it was presented.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 78, for rule 10 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3, for “the States”.
3. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 79 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).