181
1[Provided that where two or more suits have been tried together and a common judgment has been
delivered therefor and two or more appeals are filed against any decree covered by that judgment,
whether by the same appellant or by different appellants, the Appellate Court may dispense with the filing
of more than one copy of the judgment.]
(2) Contents of memorandum.—The memorandum shall set forth, concisely and under distinct
heads, the grounds of objection to the decree appealed from without any argument or narrative; and such
grounds shall be numbered consecutively.
2[(3) Where the appeal is against a decree for payment of money, the appellant shall, within such time
as the Appellate Court may allow, deposit the amount disputed in the appeal or furnish such security in
respect thereof as the Court may think fit.]
2. Grounds which may be taken in appeal.—The appellant shall not, except by leave of the Court,
urge or be heard in support of any ground of objection not set forth in the memorandum of appeal; but the
Appellate Court, in deciding the appeal, shall not be confined to the grounds of objections set forth in the
memorandum of appeal or taken by leave of the Court under this rule:
Provided that the Court shall not rest its decision on any other ground unless the party who may be
affected thereby has had a sufficient opportunity of contesting the case on that ground.
3. Rejection or amendment of memorandum.—(1) Where the memorandum of appeal is not drawn
up in the manner hereinbefore prescribed, it may be rejected, or be returned to the appellant for the
purpose of being amended within a time to be fixed by the Court or be amended then and there.
(2) Where the Court rejects any memorandum, it shall record the reasons for such rejection.
(3) Where a memorandum of appeal is amended, the judge, or such officer as he appoints in this
behalf, shall sign or initial the amendment.
[3A. Application for condonation of delay.—(1) When an appeal is presented after the expiry of the
period of limitation specified therefore, it shall be accompanied by an application supported by affidavit
setting forth the facts on which the appellant relies to satisfy the Court that he had sufficient cause for not
preferring the appeal within such period.
(2) If the Court sees no reason to reject the application without the issue of a notice to the respondent,
notice hereof shall be issued to the respondent and the matter shall be finally decided by the Court before
it proceeds to deal with the appeal under rule 11 or rule 13, as the case may be.
(3) Where an application has been made under sub-rule (1), the Court shall not make an order for the
stay of execution of the decree against which the appeal is proposed to be filed so long as the Court does
not, after hearing under rule 11, decide to hear the appeal.]
4. One of several plaintiffs or defendants may obtain reversal of whole decree where it proceeds
on ground common to all.—Where there are more plaintiffs or more defendants than one in a suit, and
the decree appealed from proceeds on any ground common to all the plaintiffs or to all the defendants,
any one of the plaintiffs or of the defendants may appeal from the whole decree, and thereupon the
Appellate Court may reverse or vary the decree in favour of all the plaintiffs or defendants, as the case
maybe.
Stay of proceedings and of execution
5. Stay by Appellate Court.—(1) An appeal shall not operate as a stay of proceedings under a decree
or order appealed from except so far as the Appellate Court may order, nor shall execution of a decree be
stayed by reason only of an appeal having been preferred from the decree; but the Appellate Court may
for sufficient cause order stay of execution of such decree.
3[Explanation.—An order by the Appellate Court for the stay of execution of the decree shall be
effective from the date of the communication of such order to the Court of first instance, but an affidavit sworn
1. The proviso added by Act 104 of 1976, s. 87 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 87, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. The Explanation ins. by s. 87, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).