158
(2) Notice of such application shall be given to such person, and the Court, after hearing his
objections (if any) may make such order in the matter as it thinks fit.
1[2A. Security to be furnished by next friend when so ordered.—(1) Where a suit has been
instituted on behalf of the minor by his next friend, the Court may, at any stage of the suit, either of its
own motion or on the application of any defendant, and for reasons to be recorded, order the next friend
to give security for the payment of all costs incurred or likely to be incurred by the defendant.
(2) Where such a suit is instituted by an indigent person, the security shall include the court-fees
payable to the Government.
(3) The provisions of rule 2 of Order XXV shall, so far as may be, apply to a suit where the Court
makes an order under this rule directing security to be furnished.]
3. Guardian for the suit to be appointed by Court for minor defendants.—(1) Where the
defendant is a minor the Court, on being satisfied of the fact of his minority, shall appoint a proper person
to be guardian for the suit for such minor.
(2) An order for the appointment of a guardian for the suit may be obtained upon application in the
name and on behalf of the minor or by the plaintiff.
(3) Such application shall be supported by an affidavit verifying the fact that the proposed guardian
has no interest in the matters in controversy in the suit adverse to that of the minor and that he is a fit
person to be so appointed.
(4) Order shall be made on any application under this rule except upon notice 2*** to any guardian of
the minor appointed or declared by an authority competent in that behalf, or, where there is no such
guardian 3[upon notice to the father or where there is no father, to the mother, or where there is no father
or mother, to other natural guardian] of the minor, or, where there is 3[no father, mother or other natural
guardian], to the person in whose care the minor is, and after hearing any objection which may be urged
on behalf of any person served with notice under this sub-rule.
1[(4A)The Court may, in any case, if it thinks fit, issue notice under sub-rule (4) to the minor also.]
4[(5) A person appointed under sub-rule (1) to be guardian for the suit for a minor shall, unless his
appointment is terminated by retirement, removal or death, continue as such throughout all proceedings
arising out of the suit including proceedings in any Appellate or Revisional Court and any proceedings in
the execution of a decree.]
1[3A. Decree against minor not to be set aside unless prejudice has been caused to his
interests.—(1) No decree passed against a minor shall be set aside merely on the ground that the next
friend or guardian for the suit of the minor had an interest in the subject-matter of the suit adverse to that
of the minor, but the fact that by reasons of such adverse interest of the next friend or guardian for the
suit, prejudice has been caused to the interests of the minor, shall be a ground for setting aside the decree.
(2)Nothing in this rule shall preclude the minor from obtaining any relief available under any law by
reason of the misconduct or gross negligence on the part of the next friend or guardian for the suit
resulting in prejudice to the interests of the minor.]
4. Who may act as next friend or be appointed guardian for the suit—(1)Any person who is of
sound mind and has attained majority may act as next friend of a minor or as his guardian for the suit:
Provided that the interest of such person is not adverse to that of the minor and that he is not, in the
case of a next friend, a defendant, or, in the case of a guardian for the suit, a plaintiff.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976. s. 79 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. The words “to the minor and” omitted by s. 79, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 79, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Ins. by Act 16 of 1937. s. 2.