127
Provided that in order to give the judgment-debtor an opportunity of satisfying the decree, the Court
may, before making the order of detention, leave the judgment-debtor in the custody of an officer of the
Court for a specified period not exceeding fifteen days or release him on his furnishing security to the
satisfaction of the Court for his appearance at the expiration of the specified period if the decree be not
sooner satisfied.
(4) A judgment-debtor released under this rule may be re-arrested.
(5) When the Court does not make an order of detention under sub-rule (3) it shall disallow the
application and, if the judgment-debtor is under arrest, direct his release.]
Attachment of property
41. Examination of judgment-debtor as to his property.—1[(1)] Where a decree is for the payment
of money the decree-holder may apply to the Court for an order that—
(a) the judgment-debtor, or
(b) 2[where the judgment-debtor is a corporation], any officer thereof, or
(c) any other person,
be orally examined as to whether any or what debts are owing to the judgment-debtor and whether the
judgment-debtor has any and what other property or means of satisfying the decree; and the Court may
make an order for the attendance and examination of such judgment-debtor, or officer or other person,
and for the production of any books or documents.
3[(2) Where a decree for the payment of money has remained unsatisfied for a period of thirty days,
the Court may, on the application of the decree-holder and without prejudice to its power under sub-rule
(1), by order require the judgment-debtor or where the judgment-debtor is a corporation, any officer
thereof, to make an affidavit stating the particulars of the assets of the judgment-debtor.
(3) In case of disobedience of any order made under sub-rule (2), the Court making the order, or any
Court to which the proceeding is transferred, may direct that the person disobeying the order be detained
in the civil prison for a term not exceeding three months unless before the expiry of such term the Court
directs his release.]
42. Attachment in case of decree for rent or mesne profits or other matter, amount of which to
be subsequently determined.—Where a decree directs an inquiry as to rent or mesne profits or any other
matter, the property of the judgment-debtor may, before the amount due from him has been ascertained,
be attached, as in the case of an ordinary decree for the payment of money.
43. Attachment of movable property, other than agricultural produce, in possession of
judgment-debtor.—Where the property to be attached is movable property other than agricultural
produce, in the possession of the judgment-debtor, the attachment shall be made by actual seizure, and the
attaching officer shall keep the property in his own custody or in the custody of one of his subordinates,
and shall be responsible for the due custody thereof :
Provided that, when the property seized is subject to speedy and natural decay, or when the expense
of keeping it in custody is likely to exceed its value, the attaching officer may sell it at once.
3[43A. Custody of movable property.—(1) Where the property attached consists of live-stock, agricultural
implements or other articles which cannot conveniently be removed and the attaching officer does not act under
the proviso to rule 43, he may, at the instance of the judgment-debtor or of the decree holder or of any
1. Rule 41 renumbered as sub-rule (1) by Act 104 of 1976, s. 72 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 72, ibid., for “in the case of a corporation” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 72, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).