171
13. Application of proceeds.—(1) Such proceeds shall be brought into Court and applied as
follows:—
first, in payment of all expenses incident to the sale or properly incurred in any attempted
sale;
secondly, in payment of whatever is due to the prior mortgagee on account of the prior mortgage,
and of costs, properly incurred in connection therewith;
thirdly, in payment in all interest due on account of the mortgage in consequence whereof the sale
was directed, and of the costs of the suit in which the decree directing the sale was made;
fourthly, in payment of the principal money due on account of that mortgage; and
lastly, the residue (if any) shall be paid to the person proving himself to be interested in the
property sold, or if there are more such persons than one, than two, to such persons according to their
respective interests therein or upon their joint receipt.
(2) Nothing in this rule or in rule 12 shall be deemed to affect the powers conferred by section 57 of
the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882).
14. Suit for sale necessary for bringing mortgaged property to sale.—(1) Where a mortgagee has
obtained a decree for the payment of money in satisfaction of a claim arising under the mortgage, he shall
not be entitled to bring the mortgaged property to sale otherwise than by instituting a suit for sale in
enforcement of the mortgage, and he may institute such suit notwithstanding anything contained in Order
II, rule 2.
(2) Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall apply to any territories to which the Transfer of Property Act, 1882
(4 of 1882), has not been extended.
1[15. Mortgages by the deposit of title deeds and charges.—2[(1)] All the provisions contained in
this Order which apply to a simple mortgage shall, so far as may be, apply to a mortgage by deposit of
title-deeds within the meaning of section 58, and to a charge within the meaning of section 100 of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882);
3[(2) Where a decree orders payment of money and charges it on immovable property on default of
payment, the amount may be realized by sale of that property in execution of that decree.]
ORDER XXXV
Interpleader
1. Plaint in interpleader-suit.—In every suit of interpleader the plaint shall, in addition to the other
statements necessary for plaints, state—
(a) that the plaintiff claims no interest in the subject-matter in dispute other than for
charges or costs;
(b) the claims made by the defendants severally; and
(c) that there is no collusion between the plaintiff and any of the defendants.
2.Payment of thing claimed into Court.—Where the thing claimed is capable of being paid into
Court or placed in the custody of the Court, the plaintiff may be required to so pay or place it before he
can be entitled to any order in the suit.
3. Procedure where defendant is suing plaintiff.—Where any of the defendants in an
interpleader-suit is actually suing the plaintiff in respect the subject-matter of such suit, the Court in
which the suit against the plaintiff is pending shall, on being informed by the Court in which the
interpleader-suit has been instituted, stay the proceedings as against him; and his costs in the suit so
stayed may be provided for in such suit; but if and in so far as, they are not provided for in that suit,
they may be added to his costs incurred in the interpleader-suit.
1. Subs. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 7, for rule 15.
2. Rule 15 renumbered as sub-rule (1) by Act 104 of 1976, s. 82 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 82, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).