105
shall be deemed to have complied with the summons if he causes such document to be produced instead
of attending personally to produce the same.
7. Power to require persons present in Court to give evidence or produce document.—Any
person present in Court may be required by the Court to give evidence or to produce any document then
and there in his possession or power.
1[7A. Summons given to the party for service.—(1) The Court may, on the application of any party
for the issue of a summons for the attendance of any person, permit such party to effect service of such
summons on such person and shall, in such a case, deliver the summons to such party for service.
(2) The service of such summons, shall be effected by or on behalf of such party by delivering or
tendering to the witness personally a copy thereof signed by the Judge or such officer of the Court as he
may appoint in this behalf and sealed with the seal of the Court.
(3) The provisions of rules 16 and 18 of Order V shall apply to a summons personally served under
this rule as if the person effecting service were a serving officer.
(4) If such summons, when tendered, is refused or if the person served refuses to sign and
acknowledgement of service or for any reason such summons cannot be served personally, the Court
shall, on the application of the party, re-issue such summons to be served by the Court in the same
manner as a summons to a defendant.
(5) Where a summons is served by a party under this rule, the party shall not be required to pay the
fees otherwise chargeable for the service of summons.]
8. Summons how served.—Every summons 2[under this Order, not being a summons delivered to a party
for service under rule 7A,] shall be served as nearly as may be in the same manner as a summons to a defendant,
and the rules in Order V as to proof of service shall apply in the case of all summonses served under this rule.
9. Time for serving summons.—Service shall in all cases be made a sufficient time before the time
specified in the summons for the attendance of the person summoned, to allow him a reasonable time for
preparation and for travelling to the place. at which his attendance is required.
10. Procedure where witness fails to comply with summons.—3[(1) Where a person has been
issued either to attend to give evidence or to produce a document, fails to attend or to produce the
document in compliance with such summons, the Court—
(a) shall, if the certificate of the serving officer has not been verified by the affidavit, or if service
of the summons has effected by a party or his agent, or
(b) may, if the certificate of the serving officer has been so verified,
examine on oath the serving officer or the party or his agent, as the case may be, who has effected service,
or cause him to be so examined by any Court, touching the service or non-service of the summons.]
(2) Where the Court sees reason to believe that such evidence or production is material, and that such
person has, without lawful excuse, failed to attend or to produce the document in compliance with such
summons or has intentionally avoided service, it may issue a proclamation requiring him to attend to give
evidence or to produce the document at a time and place to be named therein; and a copy of such
proclamation shall be affixed on the outer door or other conspicuous part of the house in which he ordinarily
resides.
(3) In lieu of or at the time of issuing such proclamation, or at any time afterwards, the Court may, in
its discretion, issue a warrant, either with or without bail, for the arrest of such person, and may make an
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 66 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 66, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 1,2-1977).
3. Subs. by s. 66. ibid., for sub-rule (1) (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).