177
7. Mode of making attachment.—Save as otherwise expressly provided, the attachment shall be
made in the manner provided for the attachment of property in execution of a decree.
1[8. Adjudication of claim to property attached before judgment.—Where any claim is preferred to
property attached before judgment, such claim shall be adjudicated upon in the manner hereinbefore provided
for the adjudication of claim to property attached in execution of a decree for the payment of money.]
9. Removal of attachment when security furnished or suit dismissed.—Where an order is made
for attachment before judgment, the Court shall order the attachment to be withdrawn when the defendant
furnishes the security required, together with security for the costs of the attachment, or when the suit is
dismissed.
10. Attachment before judgment not to affect rights of strangers nor bar decree-holder from
applying for sale.—Attachment before judgment shall not affect the rights, existing prior to the
attachment, of persons not parties to the suit, nor bar any person holding a decree against the defendant
from applying for the sale of the property under attachment in execution of such decree.
11. Property attached before judgment not to be re-attached in execution of decree.—Where
property is under attachment by virtue of the provisions of this order and a decree is subsequently passed
in favour of the plaintiff, it shall not be necessary upon an application for execution of such decree to
apply for a re-attachment of the property.
2[11A. Provisions applicable to attachment.—(1) The provisions of this Code applicable to an
attachment made in execution of a decree shall, so for as may be, apply to an attachment made before
judgment which continues after the judgment by virtue of the provisions of rule 11.
(2)An attachment made before judgment in a suit which is dismissed for default shall not become
revived merely by reason of the fact that the order for the dismissal of the suit for default has been set
aside and the suit has been restored.]
12. Agricultural produce not attachable before judgment.—Nothing in this Order shall be deemed
to authorize the plaintiff to apply for the attachment of any agricultural produce in the possession of an
agriculturist, or to empower the Court to order the attachment or production of such produce.
3[13. Small Cause Court not to attach immovable property.—Nothing in this Order shall be
deemed to empower any Court of Small Causes to make an order for the attachment of immovable
property.]
ORDER XXXIX
Temporary Injunctions and Interlocutory Orders
Temporary Injunctions
41. Cases in which temporary injunction may be granted.—Where in any suit it is proved by
affidavit or otherwise—
(a) that any property in dispute in a suit is in danger of being wasted, damaged or alienated by
any party to the suit, or wrongfully sold in execution of a decree, or
(b) that the defendant threatens, or intends, to remove or dispose of his property with a view to
5[defrauding] his creditors,
6[(c) that the defendant threatens to dispossess, the plaintiff or otherwise cause injury to the
plaintiff in relation to any property in dispute in the suit,]
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 85,. for rule 8 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 85, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by Act 1 of 1926. s. 4.
4. Amendment to rule 1 of Order XXXIX by Act 46 of 1999, s. 30 subsequently s. 30 omitted by Act 22 of 2002 s. 15 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 86, for “defraud” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
6. Ins. by s. 86, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).