24
Provided, firstly that, for the purpose of making an arrest under this section, no dwelling-house shall be
entered after sunset and before sunrise:
Provided, secondly, that no outer door of a dwelling-house shall be broken open unless such dwelling-
house is in the occupancy of the judgment-debtor and he refuses or in any way prevents access thereto, but
when the officer authorized to make the arrest has duly gained access to any dwelling-house, he may break
open the door of any room in which he has reason to believe the judgment-debtor is to be found:
Provided, thirdly that, if the room is in the actual occupancy of a woman who is not the judgment-debtor
and who according to the customs of the country does not appear in public, the officer authorized to make the
arrest shall give notice to her that she is at liberty to withdraw, and, after allowing a reasonable time for her to
withdraw and giving her reasonable facility for withdrawing, may enter the room for the purpose of making
the arrest:
Provided, fourthly, that, where the decree in execution of which a judgment-debtor is arrested, is a
decree for the payment of money and the judgment-debtor pays the amount of the decree and the costs of
the arrest to the officer arresting him, such officer shall at once release him.
(2) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that any person or class of
persons whose arrest might be attended with danger or inconvenience to the public shall not be liable to arrest
in execution of a decree otherwise than in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed by the State
Government in this behalf.
(3) Where a judgment-debtor is arrested in execution of a decree for the payment of money and brought
before the Court, the Court shall inform him that he may apply to be declared an insolvent, and that he 1[may
be discharged] if he has not committed any act of bad faith regarding the subject of the application and if he
complies with the provisions of the law of insolvency for the time being in force.
(4) Where a judgment-debtor expresses his intention to apply to be declared an insolvent and furnishes
security, to the satisfaction of the Court, that he will within one month so apply, and that he will appear,
when called upon, in any proceeding upon the application or upon the decree in execution of which he was
arrested, the Court 2[may release] him from arrest, and, if he fails so to apply and to appear, the Court may
either direct the security to be realized or commit him to the civil prison in execution of the decree.
56. Prohibition of arrest or detention of women in execution of decree for money.—Notwithstanding
anything in this Part, the Court shall not order the arrest or detention in the civil prison of a woman in
execution of a decree for the payment of money.
57. Subsistence-allowance.—The State Government may fix scales, graduated according to rank, race
and nationality, of monthly allowances payable for the subsistence of judgment-debtors.
58. Detention and release.—(1)Every person detained in the civil prison in execution of a decree
shall be so detained,—
(a) where the decree is for the payment of a sum of money exceeding 3[ 4[five thousand rupees],
for a period not exceeding three months, and,]
5[(b) where the decree is for the payment of a sum of money exceeding two thousand rupees, but
not exceeding five thousand rupees, for a period not exceeding six weeks.]
6(1A) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no order for detention of the judgment-
debtor in civil prison in execution of a decree for the payment of money shall be made, where the total
amount of the decree does not exceed 7[two thousand rupees.]
1. Subs. by Act 3 of 1921, s. 2, for “will be discharged”.
2. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., for “shall release”.
3. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 22, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 5, “one thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. Subs. by s. 5, ibid., by clause (b) (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
6. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 22 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
7. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 5, for “five hundred rupees” (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).