304
(b) a stated amount in respect of another party’s costs;
(c) costs from or until a certain date;
(d) costs incurred before proceedings have begun;
(e) costs relating to particular steps taken in the proceedings;
(f) costs relating to a distinct part of the proceedings; and
(g) interest on costs from or until a certain date.’.
3. Amendment of section 35A. —In section 35A of the Code, sub-section (2) shall be omitted.
4. Amendment of First Schedule. — (A) in the Order V, in rule 1, in sub-rule (1), for the second
proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely: —
“Provided further that where the defendant fails to file the written statement within the said
period of thirty days, he shall be allowed to file the written statement on such other day, as may be
specified by the Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing and on payment of such costs as the
Court deems fit, but which shall not be later than one hundred twenty days from the date of service
of summons and on expiry of one hundred twenty days from the date of service of summons, the
defendant shall forfeit the right to file the written statement and the Court shall not allow the
written statement to be taken on record.”;
(B) in Order VI,––
(i) after Rule 3, the following Rule shall be inserted, namely:––
“3A. Forms of pleading in Commercial Courts––In a commercial dispute, where forms of
pleadings have been prescribed under the High Court Rules or Practice Directions made for the
purposes of such commercial disputes, pleadings shall be in such forms.”;
(ii) after Rule 15, the following Rule shall be inserted, namely:––
‘‘15A. Verification of pleadings in a commercial dispute.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 15, every pleading in a commercial dispute
shall be verified by an affidavit in the manner and form prescribed in the Appendix to this
Schedule.
(2) An affidavit under sub-rule (1) above shall be signed by the party or by one of the parties to
the proceedings, or by any other person on behalf of such party or parties who is proved to the
satisfaction of the Court to be acquainted with the facts of the case and who is duly authorised by
such party or parties.
(3) Where a pleading is amended, the amendments must be verified in the form and manner
referred to in sub-rule (1) unless the Court orders otherwise.
(4) Where a pleading is not verified in the manner provided under sub-rule (1), the party shall
not be permitted to rely on such pleading as evidence or any of the matters set out therein.
(5) The Court may strike out a pleading which is not verified by a Statement of Truth, namely,
the affidavit set out in the Appendix to this Schedule.”; Amendment of section 35A. Amendment
of First Schedule.
(C) in Order VII, after Rule 2, the following Rule shall be inserted, namely:—
“2A. Where interest is sought in the suit,—
(1) Where the plaintiff seeks interest, the plaint shall contain a statement to that effect along
with the details set out under sub-rules (2) and (3).
(2) Where the plaintiff seeks interest, the plaint shall state whether the plaintiff is seeking
interest in relation to a commercial transaction within the meaning of section 34 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 and, furthermore, if the plaintiff is doing so under the terms of a contract or