183
(2) Where such security is not furnished within such time as the Court orders, the Court shall reject
the appeal.
11. Power to dismiss appeal without sending notice to Lower Court.—1[(1) The appellate Court
after fixing a day for hearing the appellant or his pleader and hearing him accordingly if he appears on
that day may dismiss the appeal.]
(2) If on the day fixed or any other day to which the hearing may be adjourned the appellant does not
appear when the appeal is called on for hearing, the Court may make an order that the appeal be dismissed.
(3) The dismissal of an appeal under this rule shall be notified to the Court from whose decree the
appeal is preferred.
2[(4) Where an Appellate Court, not being the High Court, dismisses an appeal under sub-rule (1), it
shall deliver a judgment, recording in brief its grounds for doing so, and a decree shall be drawn up in
accordance with the judgment.]
2[11A. Time within which hearing under rule 11 should be concluded.—Every appeal shall be
heard under rule 11 as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to conclude such hearing
within sixty days from the date on which the memorandum of appeal is filed.]
12. Day for hearing appeal.—(1) Unless the Appellate Court dismisses the appeal under rule 11, it
shall fix a day for hearing the appeal.
3[(2) Such day shall be fixed with reference to the current business of the Court]
4 *
*
*
*
*
14. Publication and service or notice or day for hearing appeal.—(1) Notice of the day fixed
under rule 12 shall be affixed in the Appellate Court-house, and a like notice shall be sent by the
Appellate Court to the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred, and shall be served on the
respondent or on his pleader in the Appellate Court in the manner provided for the service on a defendant
of a summons to appear and answer; and all the provisions applicable to such summons, and to
proceedings with reference to the service thereof, shall apply to the service of such notice.
(2) Appellate Court may itself cause notice to be served.—Instead of sending the notice to the
Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred, the Appellate Court may itself cause the notice to be
served on the respondent or his pleader under the provisions above referred to.
2[(3) The notice to be served on the respondent shall be accompanied by a copy of the memorandum
of appeal.
(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-rule (1), it shall not be necessary to
serve notice of any proceeding incidental to an appeal on any respondent other than a person impleaded
for the first time in the Appellate Court, unless he has appeared and filed an address for the service in the
Court of first instance or has appeared in the appeal.
(5) Nothing in sub-rule (4) shall bar the respondent referred to in the appeal from defending it.]
5*
*
*
*
*
Procedure on hearing
16. Right to begin.—(1) On the day fixed, or on any other day to which the hearing may be
adjourned, the appellant shall be heard in support of the appeal.
(2)The Court shall then, if it does not dismiss the appeal at once, hear the respondent against the
appeal, and in such case the appellant shall be entitled to reply.
17. Dismissal of appeal for appellant’s default.—(1) Where on the day fixed, or on any other day to
which the hearing may be adjourned, the appellant does not appear when the appeal is called on for
hearing, the Court may make an order that the appeal be dismissed.
1. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 31, for sub-rule (1) (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976,s. 87 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 31, for sub-rule (2) (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
4. Rule 13 omitted by s. 31, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
5. Rule 15 omitted by s. 31, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).