119
11. Oral application.—(1) Where a decree is for the payment of money the Court may, on the oral
application of the decree-holder at the time of the passing of the decree, order immediate execution
thereof by the arrest of the judgment-debtor, prior to the preparation of a warrant if he is within the
precincts of the Court.
(2) Written application.—Save as otherwise provided by sub-rule (1), every application for the
execution of a decree shall be in writing, signed and verified by the applicant or by some other person
proved to the satisfaction of the Court to be acquainted with the facts of the case, and shall contain in a
tabular form the following particulars, namely :—
(a) the number of the suit;
(b) the names of the parties;
(c) the date of the decree;
(d) whether any appeal has been preferred from the decree;
(e) whether any, and (if any) what, payment or other adjustment of the matter in controversy has
been made between the parties subsequently to the decree;
(f) whether any, and (if any) what, previous applications have been made for the execution of the
decree, the dates of such applications and their results;
(g) the amount with, interest (if any) due upon the decree, or other relief granted thereby, together
with particulars of any cross-decree, whether passed before or after the date of the decree sought to be
executed;
(h) the amount of the costs (if any) awarded;
(i) the name of the person against whom execution of the decree is sought; and
(j) the mode in which the assistance of the Court is required whether,—
(i) by the delivery of any property specifically decreed;
1[(ii) by the attachment, or by the attachment and sale, or by the sale without attachment, of
any property;]
(iii) by the arrest and detention in prison of any person;
(iv) by the appointment of a receiver;
(v) otherwise, as the nature of the relief granted may require.
(3) The Court to which an application is made under sub-rule (2) may require the applicant to produce
a certified copy of the decree.
2[11A. Application for arrest to state grounds.—Where an application is made for the arrest and
detention in prison of the judgment-debtor, it shall state, or be accompanied by an affidavit stating, the
grounds on which arrest is applied for.]
12. Application for attachment of movable property not in judgment-debtor's possession.—
Where an application is made for the attachment of any movable property belonging to a judgment-debtor
but not in his possession, the decree-holder shall annex to the application an inventory of the property to
be attached, containing a reasonably accurate description of the same.
13. Application for attachment of immovable property to contain certain particulars.—Where
an application is made for the attachment of any immovable property belonging to a judgment-debtor, it
shall contain at the foot—
(a) a description of such property sufficient to identify the same and, in case such property can be
identified by boundaries or numbers in a record of settlement or survey, a specification of such
boundaries or numbers; and
(b) a specification of the judgment-debtor's share or interest in such property to the best of the
belief of the applicant, and so far as he has been able to ascertain the same.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 72, for sub-clause, (ii) (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 72, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).