49
149. Power to make up deficiency of court-fees.—Where the whole or any part of any fee prescribed for
any document by the law for the time being in force relating to court-fees has not been paid, the Court may, in
its discretion, at any stage, allow the person, by whom such fee is payable, to pay the whole or part, as the case
may be, of such court-fee; and upon such payment the document, in respect of which fee is payable, shall have
the same force and effect as if such fee had been paid in the first instance.
150. Transfer of business.— Save as otherwise provided, where the business of any Court is transferred
to any other Court, the Court to which the business is so transferred shall have the same powers and shall
perform the same duties as those respectively conferred and imposed by or under this Code upon the Court
from which the business was so transferred.
151. Saving of inherent powers of Court.—Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or
otherwise affect the inherent power of the Court to make such orders as may be necessary for the ends of
justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court.
152. Amendment of judgments, decrees or orders.—Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in
judgments, decrees or orders or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission may at any
time be corrected by the Court either of its own motion or on the application of any of the parties.
153. General power to amend .— The Court may at any time, and on such terms as to costs or otherwise
as it may think fit, amend any defect or error in any proceeding in a suit ; and all necessary amendments shall be
made for the purpose of determining the real question or issue raised by or depending on such proceeding.
1[153A. Power to amend decree or order where appeal is summarily dismissed.—Where an
Appellate Court dismisses an appeal under rule 11 of Order XLI, the power of the Court to amend, under
section 152, the decree or order appealed against may be exercised by the Court which had passed the decree
or order in the first, instance, notwithstanding that the dismissal of the appeal has the effect of confirming the
decree or order, as the case may be, passed by the Court of first instance.
153B. Place of trial to be deemed to be open Court .—The place in which any Civil Court is held
for the purpose of trying any suit shall be deemed to be an open Court, to which the public generally may
have access so far as the same can conveniently contain them:
Provided that the presiding Judge may, if he thinks fit, order at any stage of any inquiry into or trial of
any particular case, that the public generally, or any particular person, shall not have access to, or be or
remain in, the room or building used by the Court.]
154. [Saving of present right of appeal.] Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1952 (48 of1952),
s. 2 and the First Sch.
155. [Amendment of certain Acts.] Rep. by s. 2 and the First Sch., ibid.
156. [Repeals.]Rep. by the Second Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (17 of1914). s. 3 and the Second Sch.
157. Continuance of orders under repealed enactments.—Notifications published, declarations
and rules made, places appointed, agreements filed, scales prescribed, forms framed, appointments made
and powers conferred under Act VIII of 1859 or under any Code of Civil Procedure or any Act amending
the same or under any other enactment hereby repealed shall, so far as they are consistent with this Code,
have the same force and effect as if they had been respectively published, made, appointed, filed,
prescribed, framed and conferred under this Code and by the authority empowered thereby in such behalf.
158. Reference to Code of Civil Procedure and other repealed enactments.—In every enactment
or notification passed or issued before the commencement of this Code in which reference is made to or
to any Chapter or section of Act VIII of 1859 or any Code of Civil Procedure or any Act amending the
same or any other enactment hereby repealed, such reference shall, so far as may be practicable, be taken
to be made to this Code or to its corresponding Part, Order, section or rule.
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976. s. 51 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).