79
8. On issue of summons for final disposal, defendant to be directed to produce his witnesses.—Where
the summons is for the final disposal of the suit, it shall also direct the defendant to produce, on the day fixed
for his appearance, all witnesses upon whose evidence he intends to rely in support of his case.
Service of Summons
1[9. Delivery of summons by Court.—(1) Where the defendant resides within the jurisdiction of the
Court in which the suit is instituted, or has an agent resident within that jurisdiction who is empowered to
accept the service of the summons, the summons shall, unless the Court otherwise directs, be delivered or sent
either to the proper officer to be served by him or one of his subordinates or to such courier services as are
approved by the Court.
(2) The proper officer may be an officer of a Court other than that in which the suit is instituted, and, where
he is such an officer, the summons may be sent to him in such manner as the Court may direct.
(3) The services of summons may be made by delivering or transmitting a copy thereof by registered post
acknowledgment due, addressed to the defendant or his agent empowered to accept the service or by speed
post or by such courier services as are approved by the High Court or by the Court referred to in sub-rule (1) or
by any other means of transmission of documents (including fax message or electronic mail service) provided
by the rules made by the High Court:
Provided that the service of summons under this sub-rule shall be made at the expenses of the plaintiff.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), where a defendant resides outside the jurisdiction
of the Court in which the suit is instituted, and the Court directs that the service of summons on that defendant
may be made by such mode of service of summons as is referred to in sub-rule (3) (except by registered post
acknowledgment due), the provisions of rule 21 shall not apply.
(5) When an acknowledgment or any other receipt purporting to be signed by the defendant or his agent is
received by the Court or postal article containing the summons is received back by the Court with an
endorsement purporting to have been made by a postal employee or by any person authorised by the courier
service to the effect that the defendant or his agent had refused to take delivery of the postal article containing
the summons or had refused to accept the summons by any other means specified in sub-rule (3)when tendered
or transmitted to him, the Court issuing the summons shall declare that the summons had been duly served on
the defendant :
Provided that where the summons was properly addressed, pre-paid and duly sent by registered post
acknowledgment due, the declaration referred to in this sub-rule shall be made notwithstanding the fact that the
acknowledgment having been lost or mislaid, or for any other reason, has not been received by the Court
within thirty days from the date of issue of summons.
(6) The High Court or the District Judge, as the case may be, shall prepare a panel of courier agencies for
the purposes of sub-rule (1).
9A. Summons given to the plaintiff for service.—(1) The Court may, in addition to the service of
summons under rule 9, on the application of the plaintiff for the issue of a summons for the appearance of the
defendant, permit such plaintiff to effect service of such summons on such defendant and shall, in such a case,
deliver the summons to such plaintiff for service.
(2) The service of such summons shall be effected by or on behalf of such plaintiff by delivering or
tendering to the defendant personally a copy thereof signed by the Judge or such officer of the Court as he may
appoint in this behalf and sealed with the seal of the Court or by such mode of service as is referred to in sub-
rule (3) of rule 9.
(3) The provisions of rules 16 and 18 shall apply to a summons personally served under this rule as if the
person effecting service were a serving officer.
(4) If such summons, when tendered, is refused or if the person served refuses to sign an acknowledgment of
service or for any reason such summons cannot be served personally, the Court shall, on the application of the party,
re-issue such summons to be served by the Court in the same manner as a summons to a defendant.]
10. Mode of service.—Service of the summons shall be made by delivering or tendering a copy thereof signed
by the Judge or such officer as he appoints in this behalf, and sealed with the seal of the Court.
1. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 6, for rule 9 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).