254
(b) an inquiry what are the encumbrances (if any) affecting the immovable property of the
deceased or any part thereof;
(c) an account, so far as possible, of what is due to the several encumbrancers, and to include a
statement of the priorities of such of the encumbrancers as shall consent to the sale hereinafter
directed.
11. And that the immovable property of the deceased, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to
make up the fund in Court sufficient to carry out the object of the suit, be sold with the approbation of the
Judge, free from encumbrances (if any) of such encumbrancers as shall consent to the sale and subject to
the encumbrances of such of them as shall not consent.
12. And it is ordered that G. H. shall have the conduct of the sale of the immovable property, and
shall prepare the conditions and contracts of sale subject to the approval of the. …………….1and that in
case any doubt or difficulty shall arise the papers shall be submitted to the Judge to settle.
13. And it is further ordered that, for the purpose of the inquiries hereinbefore directed, the.……….
*shall advertise in the newspapers according to the practice of the Court, or shall make such inquiries in
any other way which shall appear to the… …………1to give the most useful publicity to such inquiries.
14. And it is ordered that the above inquiries and accounts be made and taken, and that all other acts
ordered to be done be completed, before the day of ……………. and that the ………………1do certify
the result of the injuries, and the accounts, and that all other acts ordered are completed, and have his
certificate in that behalf ready for the inspection of the parties on the ……………. day of …………..
15. And, lastly, it is ordered that this suit [or proceedings] stand adjourned for making final decree to
the day of …………………….
[Such part only of this decree is to be used as is applicable to the particular case.]
No. 18
FINAL DECREE IN AN ADMINISTRATION-SUIT BY A LEGATEE
(Title)
1. It is ordered that the defendant…………..do, on or before the.. ………….. day of.………….pay
into Court the sum of Rs. ………… the balance by the said certificate found to be due from the said
defendant on account of the estate of …………….. , the testator and also the sum of Rs. ……….for
interest, at the rate of Rs. ……………. per cent. per annum, from the.………………day of……………to
the………….day of…………, amounting together to the sum of Rs. ………………..
2. Let the …………………1 of the said Court tax the costs of the plaintiff and defendant in this suit,
and let the amount of the said costs, when so taxed, be paid out of the said sum of Rs. …………….
ordered to be paid into Court as aforesaid, as follows:—
(a) The costs of the plaintiff to Mr.. ………………., his attorney [or pleader] or and the costs of
the defendant to Mr. ………………., his attorney [or pleader].
(b) And (if any debts are due) with the residue of the said sum of Rs. …………….. after payment
of the plaintiff’s and defendant's costs as aforesaid let the sums, found to be owing to the several
creditors mentioned in the schedule to the certificate, of the. ………… 1, together with subsequent
interest on such of the debts as bear interest, be paid; and, after making such payments, let the amount
coming to the several legatees mentioned in the………………..schedule, together with subsequent
interest (to be verified as aforesaid), be paid to them.
3. And if there should then be any residue, let the same be paid to the residuary legatee.
1. Here insert name of proper officer.