87
110. Return of plaint.—(1) 2[Subject to the provisions of rule 10A, the plaint shall] at any stage
of the suit be returned to be presented to the Court in which the suit should have been instituted.
3[Explanation.— For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that a Court of appeal or revision
may direct, after setting aside the decree passed in a suit, the return of the plaint under this sub-rule.]
(2) Procedure on returning plaint.—On returning a plaint, the Judge shall endorse thereon the
date of its presentation and return, the name of the party presenting it, and a brief statement of the
reasons for returning it.
3[10A. Power of Court to fix a date of appearance in the Court where plaint is to be filed
after its return.—(1) Where, in any suit, after the defendant has appeared, the Court is of opinion
that the plaint should be returned, it shall, before doing so, intimate its decision to the plaintiff.]
(2) Where an intimation is given to the plaintiff under sub-rule (1), the plaintiff may make an
application to the Court—
(a) specifying the Court in which he proposes to present the plaint after its return,
(b) praying that the Court may fix a date for the appearance of the parties in the said Court, and
(c)requesting that the notice of the date so fixed may be given to him and to the defendant.
(3) Where an application is made by the plaintiff under sub-rule (2), the Court shall, before
returning the plaint and notwithstanding that the order for return of plaint was made by it on the
ground that it has no jurisdiction to try the suit,—
(a) fix a date for the appearance of the parties in the Court in which the plaint is proposed to
be presented, and
(b) give to the plaintiff and to the defendant notice of such date for appearance.
(4) Where the notice of the date for appearance is given under sub-rule (3),—
(a) it shall not be necessary for the Court in which the plaint is presented after its return, to
serve the defendant with a summons for appearance in the suit, unless that Court, for reasons to be
recorded, otherwise directs, and
(b) the said notice shall be deemed to be a summons for the appearance of the defendant in the
Court in which the plaint is presented on the date so fixed by the Court by which the plaint was
returned.
(5) Where the application made by the plaintiff under sub-rule (2) is allowed by the Court, the
plaintiff shall not be entitled to appeal against the order returning the plaint.
10B. Power of appellate Court to transfer suit to the proper Court.— (1) Where, on an
appeal against an order for the return of plaint, the Court hearing the appeal confirms such order, the
Court of appeal may, if the plaintiff by an application so desires, while returning the plaint, direct
plaintiff to file the plaint, subject to the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), in the
Court in which the suit should have been instituted, (whether such Court is within or without the State
in which the Court hearing the appeal is situated), and fix a date for the appearance of the parties in the
Court in which the plaint is directed to be filed and when the date is so fixed it shall not be necessary
for the Court in which the plaint is filed to serve the defendant with the summons for appearance in the
suit, unless that Court in which the plaint is filed, for reasons to be recorded, otherwise directs.
1. This rule has been applied to suits for the recovery of rent under the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act, 1908 (Ben. 6 of 1908) s. 265.
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 57, for, certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 57, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).