112
15. Power to deal with evidence taken before another Judge.—(1) Where a Judge is prevented by death,
transfer or other cause from concluding the trial of a suit, his successor may deal with any evidence or
memorandum taken down or made under the foregoing rules as if such evidence or memorandum had been taken
down or made by him or under his direction under the said rules and may proceed with the suit from the stage at
which his predecessor left it.
(2) The provisions of sub-rule (1) shall, so far as they are applicable, be deemed to apply to evidence taken
in a suit transferred under section 24.
16. Power to examine witness immediately—(1) Where a witness is about to leave the jurisdiction of the
Court, or other sufficient cause is shown to the satisfaction of the Court why his evidence should be taken
immediately, the Court may, upon the application of any party or of the witness, at any time after the
institution of the suit, take the evidence of such witness in manner hereinbefore provided.
(2) Where such evidence is not taken forthwith and in the presence of the parties, such notice as the Court
thinks sufficient, of the day fixed for the examination, shall be given to the parties.
(3) The evidence so taken shall be read over to the witness, and, if he admits it to be correct, shall be
signed by him, and the Judge shall, if necessary, correct the same, and shall sign it, and it may then be read at
any hearing of the suit.
17. Court may recall and examine witness.—The Court may at any stage of a suit recall any witness
who has been examined and may (subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force) put such questions
to him as the Court thinks fit.
17A. [Production of evidence not previously known or which could not be produced despite due diligence.]
Omitted by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1999 (46 of 1999), s. 27 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
18. Power of Court to inspect.—The Court may at any stage of a suit inspect any property or thing
concerning which any question may arise 1[and where the Court inspects any property or thing it shall, as soon
as may be practicable, make a memorandum of any relevant facts observed at such inspection and such
memorandum shall form a part of the record of the suit].
2[19. Power to get statements recorded on commission.—Notwithstanding anything contained in
these rules, the court may, instead of examining witnesses in open court, direct their statements to be
recorded on commission under rule 4A of Order XXVI.]
ORDER XIX
Affidavits
1. Power to order any point to be proved by affidavit.—Any Court may at any time for sufficient
reason order that any particular fact or facts may be proved by affidavit, or that the affidavit of any
witness may be read at the hearing, on such conditions as the Court thinks reasonable:
Provided that where it appears to the Court that either party bona fide desires the production of a
witness for cross-examination, and that such witness can be produced, an order shall not be made
authorizing the evidence of such witness to be given by affidavit.
2. Power to order attendance of deponent for cross-examination.—(1) Upon any application
evidence may be given by affidavit, but the Court may, at the instance of either party, order the
attendance for cross-examination of the deponent.
(2) Such attendance shall be in Court, unless the deponent is exempted from personal appearance in
Court, or the Court otherwise directs.
3. Matters to which affidavits shall be confined.—(1) Affidavits shall be confined to such facts as
the deponent is able of his own knowledge to prove, except on interlocutory applications, on which
statements of his belief may be admitted: provided that the grounds thereof are stated.
(2) The costs of every affidavit which shall unnecessarily set forth matters of hearsay or
argumentative matter, or copies of or extracts from documents, shall (unless the Court otherwise directs)
be paid by the party filing the same.
2. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 69 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 27 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).