23
(a) by delivery of any property specifically decreed;
(b) by attachment and sale or by the sale without attachment of any property;
(c) by arrest and detention in prison 1[for such period not exceeding the period specified in section 58,
where arrest and detention is permissible under that section];
(d) by appointing a receiver; or
(e) in such other manner as the nature of the relief granted may require :
2[Provided that, where the decree is for the payment of money, execution by detention in prison shall not
be ordered unless, after giving the judgment-debtor an opportunity of showing cause why he should not be
committed to prison, the Court, for reasons recorded in writing, is satisfied—
(a) that the judgment-debtor, with the object or effect of obstructing or delaying the execution of the
decree,—
(i) is likely to abscond or leave the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court, or
(ii) has, after the institution of the suit in which the decree was passed, dishonestly transferred,
concealed, or removed any part of his property, or committed any other act of bad faith in relation to
his property, or
(b) that the judgment-debtor has, or has had since the date of the decree. the means to pay the amount
of the decree or some substantial part thereof and refuses or neglects or has refused or neglected to pay the
same, or
(c) that the decree is for a sum for which the judgment-debtor was bound in a fiduciary capacity to
account.
Explanation. —In the calculation of the means of the judgment-debtor for the purposes of clause (b), there
shall be left out of account any property which, by or under any law or custom having the force of law for the
time being in force, is exempt from attachment in execution of the decree.]
52. Enforcement of decree against legal representative.—(1) Where a decree is passed against a party
as the legal representative of a deceased person, and the decree is for the payment of money out of the property
of the deceased, it may be executed by the attachment and sale of any such property.
(2) Where no such property remains in the possession of the judgment-debtor and he fails to satisfy the Court
that he has duly applied such property of the deceased as is proved to have come into his possession, the decree
may be executed against the judgment-debtor to the extent of the property in respect of which he has failed so to
satisfy the Court in the same manner as if the decree had been against him personally.
53. Liability of ancestral property.—For the purposes of section 50 and section 52, property in the hands
of a son or other descendant which is liable under Hindu law for the payment of the debt of a deceased
ancestor, in respect of which a decree has been passed, shall be deemed to be property of the deceased which
has come to the hands of the son or other descendant as his legal representative.
54. Partition of estate or separation of share.—Where the decree is for the partition of an undivided estate
assessed to the payment of revenue to the Government, or for the separate possession of a share of such an estate,
the partition of the estate or the separation of the share shall be made by the Collector or any gazetted subordinate
of the Collector deputed by him in this behalf, in accordance with the law (if any) for the time being in force
relating to the partition, or the separate possession of shares, of such estates.
ARREST AND DETENTION
55. Arrest and detention.—(1) A judgment-debtor may be arrested in execution of a decree at, any
hour and on any day, and shall, as soon as practicable, be brought before the Court, and his detention may
be in the civil prison of the district in which the Court ordering the detention is situate, or, where such
civil prison does not afford suitable accommodation, in any other place which the State Government may
appoint for the detention of persons ordered by the Courts of such district to be detained:
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 21, (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by Act 21 of 1936, s. 2.