107
17. Application of rules 10 to 13.—Theprovisions of rules 10 to 13 shall, so far as they are
applicable, be deemed to apply to any person who having attended in compliance with a summons
departs, without lawful excuse, in contravention of rule 16.
18. Procedure where witness apprehended cannot give evidence or produce document.—Where
any person arrested under a warrant is brought before the Court in custody and cannot, owing to the
absence of the parties or any of them, give the evidence or produce the document which he has been
summoned to give or produce, the court may require him to give reasonable bail or other security for his
appearance at such time and place as it thinks fit, and, on such bail or security being given, may release
him, and. in default of his giving such bail or security, may order him to be detained in the civil prison.
19. No witness to be ordered to attend in person unless resident within certain limits.—No one
shall be ordered to attend in person to give evidence unless he resides—
(a) within the local limits of the Court’s ordinary jurisdiction, or
(b) without such limits but at a place less then 1[one hundred] or (where there is railway or steamer
communication or other established public conveyance for five-sixths of the distance between the place
where he resides and the place where the Court is situate) less than 2[five hundred kilometres] distance
from the court-house:
3[Provided that where transport by air is available between the two places mentioned in this rule and
the witness is paid the fare by air, he may be ordered to attend in person.]
20. Consequence of refusal of party to give evidence when called on by Court.—Where any party
to a suit present in Court refuses, without lawful excuse, when required by the Court, to give evidence or
to produce any document then and there in his possession or power, the Court may pronounce judgment
against him or make such order in relation to the suit as it thinks fit.
21. Rules as to witnesses to apply to parties summoned.—Where any party to a suit is required to
give evidence or to produce a document, the provisions as to witnesses shall apply to him so far as they
are applicable.
4[ORDER XVIA
Attendance of witnesses confined or detained in prisons
1. Definitions.—In this Order,—
(a)“detained” includes detained under any law providing for preventive detention;
(b) “prison” includes—
(i) any place which has been declared by the State Government, by general or special order,
to be a subsidiary jail; and
(ii) any reformatory, borstal institution or other institution of a like nature.
2. Power to require attendance of prisoners to give evidence.—Where it appears to a Court that
the evidence of a person confined or detained in a prison within the State is material in a suit, the Court
may make an order requiring the officer in charge of the prison to produce that person before the Court to
give evidence:
Provided that, if the distance from the prison to the Court-house is more than twenty-five kilometers,
no such order shall be made unless the Court is satisfied that the examination of such person on
commission will not be adequate.
3. Expenses to be paid into Court.—(1) Before making any order under rule 2, the Court shall
require the party at whose instance or for whose benefit the order is to be issued, to pay into Court such
sum of money as appears to the Court to be sufficient to defray the expenses of the execution of the order,
including the travelling and other expenses of the escort provided for the witness.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 66, for “fifty” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 66, ibid., for “two hundred miles” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. The proviso added by s. 66, ibid. (w.e.f.1-2-1977).
4. Ins. by s. 67, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).