168
5. Final decree in suit for sale.—(1) Where, on or before the day fixed or at any time before the
confirmation of a sale made in pursuance of a final decree passed under sub-rule (3) of this rule, the
defendant makes payment into Court of all amounts due from him under sub-rule (1) of rule 4, the Court
shall, on application made by the defendant in this behalf, pass a final decree or, if such decree has been
passed, an order—
(a) ordering the plaintiff to deliver up the documents referred to in the preliminary decree,
and, if necessary,—
(b) ordering him to transfer the mortgaged property as directed in the said decree,
and, also, if necessary,—
(c) ordering him to put the defendant in possession of the property.
(2) Where the mortgaged property or part thereof has been sold in pursuance of a decree passed under
sub-rule (3) of this rule, the Court shall not pass an order under sub-rule (1) of this rule, unless the
defendant, in addition to the amount mentioned in sub-rule (1), deposits in Court for payment to the
purchaser a sum equal to five per cent. of the amount of the purchase-money paid into Court by the
purchaser.
Where such deposit has been made, the purchaser shall be entitled to an order for repayment of the
amount of the purchase-money paid into Court by him, together with a sum equal to five per cent. thereof.
(3) Where payment in accordance with sub-rule (1) has not been made, the Court shall, on application
made by the plaintiff in this behalf, pass a final decree directing that the mortgaged property or a
sufficient part thereof be sold, and that the proceeds of the sale be dealt with in the manner provided in
sub-rule (1) of rule 4.
6. Recovery of balance due on mortgage in suit for sale.—Where the net proceeds of any sale held
under 1[rule 5] are found insufficient to pay the amount due to the plaintiff, the Court, on application by
him may, if the balance is legally recoverable from the defendant otherwise than out of the property sold,
pass a decree for such balance.
7. Preliminary decree in redemption suit.—(1) In a suit for redemption, if the plaintiff succeeds,
the Court shall pass a preliminary decree—
(a) ordering that an account be taken of what was due to the defendant at the date of such decree
for—
(i) principal and interest on the mortgage,
(ii) the costs of suit, if any, awarded to him, and
(iii) other costs, charges and expenses properly incurred by him up to that date, in respect of
mortgage-security, together with interest thereon; or
(b) declaring the amount so due at that date; and
(c) directing—
(i) that, if the plaintiff pays into Court the amount so found or declared due on or before such
date as the Court may fix within six months from the date on which the Court confirms and
countersigns the account taken under clause (a), or from the date on which such amount is
declared in Court under clause (b), as the case may be, and thereafter pays such amount as may be
adjudged due in respect of subsequent costs, charges and expenses as provided in rule 10.
together with subsequent interest on such sums respectively as provided in rule 11, the defendant
shall deliver up to the plaintiff, or to such person as the plaintiff appoints, all documents in his
possession or power relating to the mortgaged property, and shall, if so required, retransfer the
property to the plaintiff at his cost free from the mortgage and from all encumbrances created by
the defendant or any person claiming under him where the defendant claims by derived title, by
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 82, for “the last preceding rule” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).