166
16. Costs.—The costs of an application for permission to sue as an 1[indigent person] and of an
inquiry into indecency shall be costs in the suit.
2[17. Defence by an indigent person.—Any defendant, who desire to plead a set-off or counter-
claim, may be allowed to set up such claim as an indigent person, and the rules contained in this Order
shall so far as may be, apply to him as if he were a plaintiff and his written statement were a plaint.
18. Power of Government to provide for free legal services to indigent persons.—(1) Subject to
the provisions of this Order, the Central or State Government may make such supplementary provisions
as it thinks fit for providing free legal services to those who have been permitted to sue as indigent
persons.
(2) The High Court may, with the previous approval of the State Government, make rules for
carrying out the supplementary provisions made by the Central or State Government for providing free
legal services to indigent persons referred to in sub-rule (1), and such rules may include the nature and
extent of such legal services, the conditions under which they may be made available, the matters in
respect of which, and the agencies through which, such services may be rendered.]
ORDER XXXIV
Suits Relating to Mortgages of Immovable Property
1. Parties to suits for foreclosure sale and redemption.—Subject to the provisions of this Code, all
persons having an interest either in the mortgage-security or in the right of redemption shall be joined as
parties to any suit relating to the mortgage.
Explanation.—A puisne mortgagee may sue for foreclosure or for sale without making the prior
mortgagee a party to the suit; and a prior mortgagee need not be joined in a suit to redeem a subsequent
mortgage.
3[2. Preliminary decree in foreclosure suit.—(1) In a suit for foreclosure, if the plaintiff succeeds,
the Court shall pass a preliminary decree—
(a)ordering that an account be taken of what was due to the plaintiff at the date of such decree
for—
(i) principal and interest on the mortgage,
(ii) the costs of suit, if any, awarded to him, and
(iii) other costs, charges and expenses properly incurred by him up to that date in respect of
his mortgage-security, together with interest thereon; or
(b) declaring the amount so due at that date; and
(c) directing—
(i) that, if the defendant pays into Court the amount so found or declared due on or before
such date as the Court may fix within six months from the date on which the Court confirms and
countersigns the account taken under clause (a), or from the date on which such amount is
declared in Court under clause (b), as the case may be, and thereafter pays such amount as may be
adjudged due in respect of subsequent costs, charges and expenses as provided in rule 10,
together with subsequent interest on such sums respectively as provided in rule 11,the plaintiff
shall deliver up to the defendant, or to such person as the defendant appoints, all documents in his
possession or power relating to the mortgaged property, and shall, if so required, re-transfer the
property to the defendant at his cost free from the mortgage and from all incumbrances created by
the plaintiff or any person claiming under him, or, where the plaintiff claims by derived title, by
those under whom he claims, and shall also, if necessary, put the defendant in possession of the
property; and
(ii) that, if payment of the amount found or declared due under or by the preliminary decree is not
made on or before the date so fixed, or the defendant fails to pay, within such time as the Court
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 81 for “pauper” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 81, ibid. (w.e.f. .1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 4, for the rules 2 to 8.