80
11. Service on several defendants.—Save as otherwise prescribed, where there are more defendants
than one, service of the summons shall be made on each defendant.
12. Service to be on defendant in person when practicable, or on his agent. —Wherever it is
practicable, service shall be made on the defendant in person, unless he has an agent empowered to accept
service, in which case service on such agent shall be sufficient.
13. Service on agent by whom defendant carries on business.—(1) In a suit relating to any
business or work against a person who does not reside within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the
Court from which the summons is issued, service on any manager or agent, who, at the time of service,
personally carries on such business or work for such person within such limits, shall be deemed good
service.
(2) For the purpose of this rule the master of a ship shall be deemed to be the agent of the owner or
charterer.
14. Service on agent in charge in suits for immovable property.— Where in a suit to obtain relief
respecting, or compensation for wrong to, immovable property, service cannot be made on the defendant
in person, and the defendant has no agent empowered to accept the service, it may be made on any agent
of the defendant in charge of the property.
1[15. Where service may be on an adult member of defendant's family.— Where in any suit the
defendant is absent from his residence at the time when the service of summons is sought to be effected
on his at his residence and there is no likelihood of his being found at the residence within a reasonable
time and he has no agent empowered to accept service of the summons on his behalf, service may be
made on any adult member of the family, whether male or female, who is residing with him.
Explanation. —A servant is not a member of the family within the meaning of this rule.]
16. Person served to sign acknowledgement.—Where the serving officer delivers or tenders a copy
of the summons to the defendant personally, or to an agent or other person on his behalf, he shall require
the signature of the person to whom the copy is so delivered or tendered to an acknowledgment of service
endorsed on the original summons.
17. Procedure when defendant refuses to accept service, or cannot be found.—Where the
defendant or his agent or such other person as aforesaid refuses to sign the acknowledgment, or where the
serving officer, after using all due and reasonable diligence, cannot find the defendant, 2[who is absent
from his residence at the time when service is sought to be effected on him at his residence and there is no
likelihood of his being found at the residence within a reasonable time] and there is no agent empowered
to accept service of the summons on his behalf, nor any other person on whom service can be made, the
serving officer shall affix a copy of the summons on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the
house in which the defendant ordinarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain, and
shall then return the original to the Court from which it was issued, with a report endorsed thereon or
annexed thereto stating that he has so affixed the copy, the circumstances under which he did so, and the
name and address of the person (if any) by whom the house was identified and in whose presence the
copy was affixed.
18. Endorsement of time and manner of service.—The serving officer shall, in all cases in which
the summons has been served under rule 16, endorse or annex, or cause to be endorsed or annexed, on or
to the original summons, a return stating the time when and the manner in which the summons was
served, and the name and address of the person (if any) identifying the person served and witnessing the
delivery or tender of the summons.
19. Examination of serving officer.—Where a summons is returned under rule 17, the Court shall, if the
return under that rule has not been verified by the affidavit of the serving officer, and may, if it has been so
verified, examine the serving officer on oath, or cause him to be so examined by another Court, touching his
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 55, for rule 15 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Ins. by s. 55, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).