83
29. Duty of person to whom summons is delivered or sent for service.—(1) Where a summons is
delivered or sent to any person for service under rule 24, rule 27 or rule 28, such person shall be bound to
serve it if possible, and to return it under his signature, with the written acknowledgement of the
defendant, and such signature shall be deemed to be evidence of service.
(2) Where from any cause service is impossible, the summons shall be returned to the Court with a
full statement of such cause and of the steps taken to procure service, and such statement shall be deemed
to be evidence of non-service.
30. Substitution of letter for summons. —(1) The Court may, notwithstanding anything hereinbefore
contained, substitute for a summons a letter signed by the Judge or such officer as he may appoint in this behalf,
where the defendant is, in the opinion of the Court, of a rank entitling him to such mark of consideration.
(2) A letter substituted under sub-rule (1) shall contain all the particulars required to be stated in a
summons, and, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3), shall be treated in all respects as a summons.
(3) A letter so substituted may be sent to the defendant by post or by a special messenger selected by
the Court, or in any other manner which the Court thinks fit; and, where the defendant has an agent
empowered to accept service, the letter may be delivered or sent to such agent.
ORDER VI
Pleadings generally
1. Pleading.—“Pleading” shall mean plaint or written statement.
1[2. Pleading to state material facts and not evidence.—(1) Every pleading shall contain, and
contain only, a statement in a concise form of the material facts on which the party pleading relies for his
claim or defence, as the case may be, but not the evidence by which they are to be proved.
(2) Every pleading shall, when necessary, be divided into paragraphs, numbered consecutively, each
allegation being, so far as is convenient, contained in a separate paragraph.
(3) Dates, sums and numbers shall be expressed in a pleading in figures as well as in words.]
3. Forms of pleading.—The forms in Appendix A when applicable, and where they are not
applicable forms of the like character, as nearly as may be, shall be used for all pleadings.
4. Particulars to be given where necessary.—In all cases in which the party pleading relies on any
misrepresentation, fraud, breach of trust, wilful default, or undue influence, and in all other cases in which
particulars may be necessary beyond such as are exemplified in the forms aforesaid, particulars (with
dates and items if necessary) shall be stated in the pleading.
2*
*
*
*
*
6. Condition precedent.—Any condition precedent, the performance or occurrence of which is intended
to be contested, shall be distinctly specified in his pleading by the plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be;
and, subject thereto, an averment of the performance or occurrence of all conditions precedent necessary for
the case of the plaintiff or defendant shall be implied in his pleading.
7. Departure.—No pleading shall, except by way of amendment, raise any new ground of claim or
contain any allegation of fact inconsistent with the previous pleadings of the party pleading the same.
8. Denial of contract.—Where a contract is alleged in any pleading, a bare denial of the same by the
opposite party shall be construed only as a denial in fact of the express contract alleged or of the matters of fact
from which the same may be implied, and not as a denial of the legality or sufficiency in law of such contract.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 56, for rule 2 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Rule 5 omitted by Act 46 of 1999, s. 16 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).