101
1[Provided that a document may be returned at any time earlier then that prescribed by this rule if the
person applying therefor—
(a) delivers to the proper officer for being substituted for the original,—
(i) in the case of a party to the suit, a certified copy, and
(ii) in the case of any other person, an ordinary copy which has been examined, compared
and certified in the manner mentioned in sub-rule (2) of rule 17 of Order VII, and
(b) undertakes to produce the original, if required to do so:]
Provided also that no document shall be returned with, by force of the decree, has become wholly
void or useless.
(2) On the return of a document admitted in evidence, a receipt shall be given by the person
receiving it.
10. Court may send for papers from its own records or from other Courts.—(1)The Court may
of its own motion, and may in its discretion upon the application of any of the parties to a suit, send for,
either from its own records or from any other Court, the record of any other suit or proceeding, and
inspect the same.
(2) Every application made under this rule shall (unless the Court otherwise directs) be supported
by an affidavit showing how the record is material to the suit in which the application is made, and
that the applicant cannot without unreasonable delay or expense obtain a duly authenticated copy of
the record or of such portion thereof as the applicant requires, or that the production of the original is
necessary for the purposes of justice.
(3) Nothing contained in this rule shall be deemed to enable the Court to use in evidence any
document which under the law of evidence would be inadmissible in the suit.
11. Provisions as to documents applied to material objects.—The provisions therein contained as
to documents shall, so far as may be, apply to all other material objects producible as evidence.
ORDER XIV
Settlement of issues and determination of suit on
issues of law or on issues agreed upon
1. Framing of issues.—(1) Issues arise when a material proposition of fact or law is affirmed by the
one party and denied by the other.
(2) Material propositions arc those propositions of law or fact which a plaintiff must allege in order to
show a right to sue or a defendant must allege in order to constitute his defence.
(3) Each material proposition affirmed by one party and denied by the other shall form the subject of
distinct issue.
(4) Issues are of two kinds:
(a) issues of fact,
(b) issues of law.
(5) At the first hearing of the suit the Court shall, after reading the plaint and the written statements if
any, and 2 3[after examination under rule 2 of Order X and after hearing the parties or their pleaders],
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 63, for the first proviso (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 64, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by s. 64, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).