178
the Court may by order grant a temporary injunction to restrain such act, or make such other order for the
purpose of staying and preventing the wasting, damaging, alienation, sale, removal or disposition of the
property 1[or dispossession of the plaintiff, or otherwise causing injury to the plaintiff in relation to any
property in dispute in the suit] as the Court thinks fit, until the disposal of the suit or until further orders.
2. Injunction to restrain repetition or continuance of breach.—(1) In any suit for restraining the
defendant from committing a breach of contract or other injury of any kind, whether compensation is
claimed in the suit or not, the plaintiff may, at any time after the commencement of the suit, and either
before or after judgment, apply to the Court for a temporary injunction to restrain the defendant from
committing the breach of contract or injury complained of, or any breach of contract or injury of a like
kind arising out of the same contract or relating to the same property or right.
(2) The Court may by order grant such injunction, on such terms as to the duration of the injunction,
keeping an account, giving security, or otherwise, as the Court thinks fit.
2*
*
*
*
*
1[2A. Consequence of disobedience or breach of injunction.—(1) In the case of disobedience of
any injunction granted or other order made under rule 1 or rule 2 or breach of any of the terms on which
the injunction was granted or the order made, the Court granting the injunction or making the order, or
any Court to which the suit or proceeding is transferred, may order the property of the person guilty of
such disobedience or breach to be attached, and may also order such person to be detained in the civil
prison for a term not exceeding three months, unless in the meantime the Court directs his release.
(2) No attachment made under this rule shall remain in force for more than one year, at the end of
which time, if the disobedience or breach continues, the property attached may be sold and out of the
proceeds, the Court may award such compensation as it thinks fit to the injured party and shall pay the
balance, if any, to the party entitled thereto.]
3. Before granting injunction, Court to direct notice to opposite party.—The Court shall in all
cases, except where it appears that the object of granting the injunction would be defeated by the delay,
before granting an injunction, direct notice of the application for the same to be given to the opposite
party:
3[Provided that, where it is proposed to grant an injunction without giving notice of the application to
the opposite party, the Court shall record the reasons for its opinion that the object of granting the
injunction would be defeated by delay, and require the applicant—
(a) to deliver to the opposite party, or to send to him by registered post, immediately after the
order granting the injunction has been made, a copy of the application for injunction together with—
(i) a copy of the affidavit filed in support of the application;
(ii) a copy of the plaint; and
(iii) copies of documents on which the applicant, relies, and
(b) to file, on the day on which such injunction is granted or on the day immediately following
that day, an affidavit stating that the copies aforesaid have been so delivered or sent.]
1[3A. Court to dispose of application for injunction within thirty days.—Where an injunction has
been granted without giving notice to the opposite party, the Court shall make an endeavour to finally
dispose of the application within thirty days from the date on which the injunction was granted; and
where it is unable so to do, it shall record its reasons for such inability.]
1. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976. s. 86 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Sub-rules (3) and (4) omitted by s. 86. ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. The proviso added by s. 86, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).