236
(iv) an account of any loss or damage caused to the mortgaged property before this date by any
act or omission of the plaintiff which is destructive of, or permanently injurious to, the property or by
his failure to perform any of the duties imposed upon him by any law for the time being in force or by
the terms the mortgage-deed.
2. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that any amount received under clause (ii) or adjudged
due under clause (iv) above, together interest thereon, shall first be adjusted against any sums paid by the
plaintiff under clause (iii) together with interest thereon, and the balance, if any, shall be added to the
mortgage-money or, as the case may be, debited in reduction of the amount due to the plaintiff on account
of interest on the principal sum adjudged due, and thereafter in reduction or discharge of the principal.
3. And it is here by further ordered that the said Commissioner shall present the account to this Court
with all convenient despatch after making all just allowances on or before the day
of and that upon such report of the Commissioner being received, it shall be confirmed and
countersigned, subject to such modification as may be necessary after consideration of such objections as
the parties to the suit may make.
4. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed—
(i) that the defendant do pay into Court on or before the day of ,
or any later date up to which time for payment may be extended by the Court, such sum as the Court shall
find due, and the sum of Rs for the costs of the suit awarded to the plaintiff.
(ii) that, on such payment and on payment thereafter before such date as the Court may fix of such
amount as the Court may adjudge due in respect of such costs of the suit and such costs, charges and
expenses as may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be payable under
rule 11, of Order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the plaintiff shall
bring into Court all documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged property in the plaint
mentioned, and all such documents shall be delivered over to the defendant, or to such person as he
appoints, and the plaintiff shall, if so required, re-convey or re-transfer the said property free from the said
mortgage and clear of and from all encumbrances created by the plaintiff-or any person claiming under him
or any person under whom he claims and free from all liability whatsoever arising from the mortgage or this
suit and shall, if so required, deliver up to the defendant quiet and peaceable possession of the said property.
5. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, in default of payment as aforesaid, the plaintiff
shall be at liberty to apply to the Court for a final decree that the defendant shall thenceforth stand
absolutely debarred and foreclosed of and from all right to redeem the mortgaged property described in
the schedule annexed hereto and shall, if so required, deliver up to the plaintiff quiet and peaceable
possession of the said property; and that the parties shall be at liberty to apply to the Court from time to
time as they may have occasion, and on such application or otherwise the Court may give such directions
as it thinks fit.
Schedule
Description of the mortgaged property
No. 3A
PRELIMINARY DECREE FOR FORECLOSURE
(Order XXXIV, rule 2.—Where the Court declares the amount due.)
(Title)
This suit coming on this day, etc.; It is hereby declared that the amount due to the
plaintiff on his mortgage mentioned in the plaint calculated up to this day
of is the sum of Rs for principal, the sum of Rs for interest on the
said principal, the sum of Rs. for costs, charges and expenses (other than the costs of the
suit) properly incurred by the plaintiff in respect of the mortgage-security, together with interest thereon,
and the sum of Rs for the costs of this suit awarded to the plaintiff, making in all sum of Rs