310
(d) the source of such electronic record and date and time when the electronic record was
printed;
(e) in case of email ids, details of ownership, custody and access to such email ids;
(f) in case of documents stored on a computer or computer resource (including on external
servers or cloud), details of ownership, custody and access to such data on the computer or
computer resource;
(g) deponent’s knowledge of contents and correctness of contents;
(h) whether the computer or computer resource used for preparing or receiving or storing
such document or data was functioning properly or in case of malfunction that such
malfunction did not affect the contents of the document stored;
(i) that the printout or copy furnished was taken from the original computer or computer
resource.
(4) The parties relying on printouts or copy in electronic form, of any electronic records, shall
not be required to give inspection of electronic records, provided a declaration is made by such
party that each such copy, which has been produced, has been made from the original electronic
record.
(5) The Court may give directions for admissibility of Electronic Records at any stage of the
proceedings.
(6) Any party may seek directions from the Court and the Court may of its motion issue
directions for submission of further proof of any electronic record including metadata or logs
before admission of such electronic record.
7. Certain provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 not to apply. —For avoidance of
doubt, it is hereby clarified that Order XIII Rule 1, Order VII Rule 14 and Order VIII Rule 1A of
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) shall not apply to suits or applications before the
Commercial Divisions of High Court or Commercial Courts.”.
5. Insertion of new Order XIII-A.— After Order XIII of the Code, the following Order shall be
inserted, namely:—
‘ORDER XIII-A
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
1. Scope of and classes of suits to which this Order applies. —(1) This Order sets out the
procedure by which Courts may decide a claim pertaining to any Commercial Dispute without
recording oral evidence.
(2) For the purposes of this Order, the word “claim” shall include—
(a) part of a claim;
(b) any particular question on which the claim (whether in whole or in part) depends; or
(c) a counterclaim, as the case may be.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, an application for summary judgment under this
Order shall not be made in a suit in respect of any Commercial Dispute that is originally filed as a
summary suit under Order XXXVII.
2. Stage for application for summary judgment. — An applicant may apply for summary
judgment at any time after summons has been served on the defendant:
Provided that, no application for summary judgment may be made by such applicant after the
Court has framed the issues in respect of the suit.
3. Grounds for summary judgments. — The Court may give a summary judgment against a
plaintiff or defendant on a claim if it considers that––