160
8. Retirement of next friend.—(1) Unless otherwise ordered by the Court, a next friend shall not retire
without first procuring a fit person to be put in this place, and giving security for the costs already incurred.
(2) The application for the appointment of a new next friend shall be supported by an affidavit
showing the fitness of the person proposed and also that he has no interest adverse to that of the minor.
9. Removal of next friend.—(1) Where the interest of the next friend of a minor is adverse to that of the
minor or where he is so connected with a defendant whose interest is adverse to that of the minor as to make it
unlikely that the minor’s interest will be properly protected by him, or where he does not do his duty, or,
during the pendency of the suit, ceases to reside within 1[India], or for any other sufficient cause, application,
may be made on behalf of the minor or by a defendant for his removal; and the Court, if satisfied of the
sufficiency of the cause assigned, may order the next friend to be removed accordingly, and make such other
order as to costs as it thinks fit.
(2) Where the next friend is not a guardian appointed or declared by an authority competent in this
behalf, and an application is made by a guardian so appointed or declared, who desires to be himself
appointed in the place of the next friend, the Court shall remove the next friend unless it considers, for
reasons to be recorded by it, that the guardian ought not to be appointed the next friend of the minor, and
shall thereupon appoint the applicant to be next friend in his place upon such terms as to the costs
already incurred in the suit as it thinks fit.
10. Stay of proceedings on removal, etc., of next friend.—(1) On the retirement, removal or death of
the next friend of a minor, further proceedings shall be stayed until the appointment of a next friend in his
place.
(2) Where the pleader of such minor omits, within a reasonable time, to take steps to get a new next
friend appointed, any person interested in the minor or in the matter in issue may, apply to the Court for
the appointment of one, and the Court may appoint such person as it thinks fit.
11. Retirement, removal or death of guardian for the suit.— (1) Where the guardian for the suit
desires to retire or does not do his duty, or where other sufficient ground is made to appear, the Court
may permit such guardian to retire or may remove him, and may make such order as to costs as it thinks
fit.
(2) Where the guardian for the suit, retires, dies or is removed by the Court during the pendency of
the suit, the Court shall appoint a new guardian in his place.
12. Course to be followed by minor plaintiff or applicant on attaining majority.—(1) A minor
plaintiff or a minor not a party to a suit on whose behalf an application is pending shall, on attaining majority,
elect whether he will proceed with the suit or application.
(2) Where be elects to proceed with the suit or application, he shall apply for an order discharging the
next friend and for leave to proceed in his own name.
(3) The title of the suit or application shall in such case be corrected so as to read henceforth thus :
“A.B., late a minor by C.D., his next friend, but now having attained majority.”.
(4) Where he elects to abandon the suit or application, he shall, if a sole plaintiff or sole applicant,
apply for an order to dismiss the suit or application on repayment of the costs incurred by the defendant
or opposite party or which may have been paid by his next friend.
(5) Any application under this rule may be made ex parte but no order discharging a next friend and
permitting a minor plaintiff to proceed in his own name shall be made without notice to the next friend.
13. Where minor co-plaintiff attaining majority desires to repudiate suit.—(1) Where a minor
co-plaintiff on attaining majority desires to repudiate the suit, he shall apply to have his name struck out
as co-plaintiff; and the Court, if it finds that he is not a necessary party, shall dismiss him from the suit
on such terms as to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit.
1. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 3. for “the States”.