164
6. Notice of day for receiving evidence of applicant’s indigency.—Where the Court sees no reason
to reject the application on any of the grounds stated in rule 5, it shall fix a day (of which at least ten day’s
clear notice shall be given to the opposite party and the Government pleader) for receiving such evidence
as the applicant may adduce in proof of his indecency, and for hearing any evidence which may be
adduced in disproof thereof.
17. Procedure at hearing.—(1) On the day so fixed or as soon thereafter as may be convenient the
Court shall examine the witnesses (if any) produced by either party, and may examine the applicant or his
agent, and shall may 2[a full record of their evidence].
3[(1A) The examination of the witnesses under sub-rule (1) shall be confined to the matters specified
in clause (b), clause (c) and clause (e) of rule 5 but the examination of the applicant or his agent may
relate to any of the matters specified in rule 5.]
(2) The Court shall also hear any argument which the parties may desire to offer on the question
whether, on the face of the application and of the evidence (if any) taken by the Court 2[under rule 6 or
under this rule], the applicant is or is not subject to any of the prohibitions specified in rule 5.
(3) The Court shall then either allow or refuse to allow the applicant to sue as an 4[indigent person].
8. Procedure if application admitted.—Where the application is granted, it shall be numbered and
registered, and shall be deemed the plaint in the suit, and the suit shall proceed in all other respects as a
suit instituted in the ordinary manner, except that the plaintiff shall not be liable to pay any court-fee 2[or
fees payable for service of process] in respect of any petition, appointment of a pleader or other
proceeding connected with the suit.
9. Withdrawal of permission to sue as an indigent person.—The Court may, on the application of the
defendant, or of the Government pleader, of which seven days, clear notice in writing has been given to the
plaintiff, order that the permission granted to the plaintiff to sue as an indigent person be withdrawn—
(a) if he is guilty of vexatious or improper conduct in the course of the suit;
(b) if it appears that his means are such that he ought not to continue to sue as 4[an indigent
person]; or
(c) if he has entered into any agreement with reference to the subject-matter of the suit under
which any other person has obtained an interest in such subject-matter.
3[9A. Court to assign a pleader to an unrepresented indigent person.—(1)Where a person, who
is permitted to sue as an indigent person, is not represented by a pleader, the Court may, if the
circumstances of the case so require, assign a pleader to him.
(2) The High Court may, with the previous approval of the State Government, make rules providing for—
(a) the mode of selecting pleaders to be assigned under sub-rule (1);
(b) the facilities to be provided to such pleaders by the Court ;
(c) any other matter which is required to be or may be provided by the rules for giving effect to
the provisions of sub-rule (1).]
10. Costs where indigent person succeeds.—Where the plaintiff succeeds in the suit, the Court
shall calculate the amount of court-fees which would have been paid by the plaintiff if he had not been
permitted to sue as an 4[indigent person]; such amount shall be recoverable by the 5[State Government]
from any party ordered by the decree to pay the same and shall be a first charge, on the subject-matter of
the suit.
1. The provisions of this rule so far as it relates to the making of a memorandum are not applicable to the Chief Court of Oudh,
see Oudh Courts Act, 1925 (U.P. Act 4 of 1925), s. 16 (2).
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 81, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Ins. by s. 81, ibid, (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
4. Subs. by s. 81, ibid., for “pauper” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
5. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government” which had been subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Government”.