9
1[(3) It extends to the whole of India except—
(a) the State of Jammu and Kashmir;
(b) the State of Nagaland and the tribal areas :
Provided that the State Government concerned may, by notification in the Official Gazette, extend the
provisions of this Code or any of them to the whole or part of the State of Nagaland or such tribal areas,
as the case may be, with such supplemental, incidental or consequential modifications as may be specified
in the notification.
Explanation. — In this clause, “tribal areas” means the territories which, immediately before the 21st
day of January, 1972, were included in the tribal areas of Assam as referred to in paragraph 20 of the
Sixth Schedule to the Constitution.
(4) In relation to the Amindivi Islands, and the East Godavari, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam
Agencies in the State of Andhra Pradesh and the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, the application of this
Code shall be without prejudice to the application of any rule or regulation for the time being in force in such
Islands, Agencies or such Union Territory, as the case may be, relating to the application of this Code.]
2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,—
(1) “Code” includes rules;
(2) “decree” means the formal expression of an adjudication which, so far as regards the Court
expressing it, conclusively determines the rights of the parties with regard to all or any of the matters in
controversy in the suit and may be either preliminary or final. It shall be deemed to include the rejection of
a plaint and the determination of any question within 2*** section 144, but shall not include—
(a) any adjudication from which an appeal lies as an appeal from an order, or
(b) any order of dismissal for default.
Explanation.—A decree is preliminary when further proceedings have to be taken before the suit
can be completely disposed of. It is final when such adjudication completely disposes of the suit. It
may be partly preliminary and partly final;
(3) “decree-holder” means any person in whose favour a decree has been passed or an order
capable of execution has been made;
(4) “district” means the local limits of the jurisdiction of a principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction (hereinafter called a “District Court”), and includes the local limits of the ordinary original
civil jurisdiction of a High Court;
3[(5) “foreign Court” means a Court situate outside India and not established or continued by the
authority of the Central Government;]
(6) “foreign judgment” means the judgment of a foreign Court;
(7) “Government Pleader” includes any officer appointed by the State Government to perform all
or any of the functions expressly imposed by this Code on the Government Pleader and also any
pleader acting under the directions of the Government Pleader;
4[(7A) “High Court” in relation to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, means the High Court in
Calcutta;
(7B) “India”, except in sections 1, 29, 43, 44, 5[44A,] 78, 79, 82, 83 and 87A, means the territory of
India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir;]
(8) “Judge” means the presiding officer of a Civil Court;
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 2, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. The words and figures “section 47 or” omitted by s. 3, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 2 of 1951, s. 4, for clause (5).
4. Ins. by s. 4 ibid.
5. Ins. by Act 42 of 1953, s. 4 and the Third Sch.