10
(9) “judgment” means the statement given by the Judge of the grounds of a decree or order;
(10) “judgment-debtor” means any person against whom a decree has been passed or an order
capable of execution has been made;
(11) “legal representative” means a person who in law represents the estate of a deceased person,
and includes any person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues or
issued in a representative character the person on whom the estate devolves on the death of the party
so suing or sued;
(12) “mesne profits” of property means those profits which the person in wrongful possession of
such property actually received or might with ordinary diligence have received therefrom, together
with interest on such profits, but shall not include profits due to improvements made by the person in
wrongful possession;
(13) “movable property” includes growing crops;
(14) “order” means the formal expression of any decision of a Civil Court which is not a decree;
(15) “pleader” means any person entitled to appear and plead for another in Court, and includes an
advocate, a vakil and an attorney of a High Court;
(16) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules;
(17) “public officer” means a person falling under any of the following descriptions, namely :—
(a) every Judge;
(b) every member of 1[an All-India Service];
(c) every commissioned or gazetted officer in the military 2[naval or air] forces of 3[the Union]
4*** while serving under the Government;
(d) Every officer of a court of Justice whose duty it is, as such officer, to investigate or report on
any matter of law or fact, or to make, authenticate or keep any document, or to take charge or
dispose of any property, or to execute any judicial process, or to administer any oath, or to
interpret, or to preserve order, in the Court, and every person especially authorised by a court of
Justice to perform any of such duties;
(e) every person who holds any office by virtue of which he is empowered to place or keep any
person in confinement;
(f) every officer of the Government whose duty it is, as such officer, to prevent offences, to give
information of offences, to bring offenders to justice, or to protect the public health, safety or
convenience;
(g) every officer whose duty it is, as such officer, to take, receive, keep or expend any property
on behalf of the Government, or to make any survey, assessment or contract on behalf of the
Government, or to execute any revenue process, or to investigate, or to report on, any matter
affecting the pecuniary interests of the Government, or to make, authenticate or keep any document
relating to the pecuniary interests of the Government, or to prevent the infraction of any law for the
protection of the pecuniary interests of the Government; and
(h) every officer in the service or pay of the Government, or remunerated by fees or commission
for the performance of any public duty;
(18) “rules” means rules and forms contained in the First Schedule or made under section 122 or
section 125;
(19) “share in a corporation” shall be deemed to include stock, debenture stock, debentures or
bonds; and
(20) “signed”, save in the case of a judgment or decree, includes stamped.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 3, for “the Indian Civil Service” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 35 of 1934, s. 2 and the Sch., for “or naval”.
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “his Majesty”.
4. The words “including His Majesty’s Indian Marine Service” omitted by Act 35 of 1934, s. 2 and the Sch.