315
(3B) The written arguments shall clearly indicate the provisions of the laws being cited in support
of the arguments and the citations of judgments being relied upon by the party and include copies of
such judgments being relied upon by the party.
(3C) A copy of such written arguments shall be furnished simultaneously to the opposite party.
(3D) The Court may, if it deems fit, after the conclusion of arguments, permit the parties to file
revised written arguments within a period of not more than one week after the date of conclusion of
arguments.
(3E) No adjournment shall be granted for the purpose of filing the written arguments unless the
Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing, considers it necessary to grant such adjournment.
(3F) It shall be open for the Court to limit the time for oral submissions having regard to the nature
and complexity of the matter.”.
9. Amendment of Order XVIII. — In Order XVIII of the Code, in Rule 4, after sub-rule (1), the
following sub-rules shall be inserted, namely:––
‘‘(1A) The affidavits of evidence of all witnesses whose evidence is proposed to be led by a party
shall be filed simultaneously by that party at the time directed in the first Case Management Hearing.
(1B) A party shall not lead additional evidence by the affidavit of any witness (including of a
witness who has already filed an affidavit) unless sufficient cause is made out in an application for
that purpose and an order, giving reasons, permitting such additional affidavit is passed by the Court.
(1C) A party shall however have the right to withdraw any of the affidavits so filed at any time
prior to commencement of cross-examination of that witness, without any adverse inference being
drawn based on such withdrawal: Provided that any other party shall be entitled to tender as evidence
and rely upon any admission made in such withdrawn affidavit.”.
10. Amendment to order XIX. — In Order XIX of the Code, after Rule 3, the following Rules
shall be inserted, namely:––
“4. Court may control evidence. — (1) The Court may, by directions, regulate the evidence as to
issues on which it requires evidence and the manner in which such evidence may be placed before the
Court.
(2) The Court may, in its discretion and for reasons to be recorded in writing, exclude evidence
that would otherwise be produced by the parties.”.
5. Redacting or rejecting evidence. —A Court may, in its discretion, for reasons to be recorded in
writing––
(i) redact or order the redaction of such portions of the affidavit of examination-in-chief as do
not, in its view, constitute evidence; or
(ii) return or reject an affidavit of examination-in-chief as not constituting admissible evidence.
6. Format and guidelines of affidavit of evidence. — An affidavit must comply with the form and
requirements set forth below:—
(a) such affidavit should be confined to, and should follow the chronological sequence of, the
dates and events that are relevant for proving any fact or any other matter dealt with;
(b) where the Court is of the view that an affidavit is a mere reproduction of the pleadings, or
contains the legal grounds of any party’s case, the Court may, by order, strike out the affidavit or
such parts of the affidavit, as it deems fit and proper;
(c) each paragraph of an affidavit should, as far as possible, be confined to a distinct portion of
the subject;