89
17. Production of shop-book.—(1) Save in so far as is otherwise provided by the Bankers' Books
Evidence Act, 1891 (XVIII of 1891), where the document on which the plaintiff sues is an entry in a
shop-book or other account in his possession or power, the plaintiff shall produce the book or account at
the time of filing the plaint, together with a copy of the entry on which he relies.
(2) Original entry to be marked and returned.—The Court or such officer as it appoints in this
behalf, shall forthwith mark the document for the purpose of identification; and, after examining and
comparing the copy with the original, shall, if it is found correct, certify it to be so and return the book to
the plaintiff and cause the copy to be filed.
18. [Inadmissibility of document not produced when plaint filed.] Omitted by Act 22 of 2002, s. 8 (w.
e. f.1-7-2002).
ORDER VIII
1[Written statement, set-off and counter-claim]
2[1. Written Statement.—The Defendant shall, within thirty days from the date of service of
summons on him, present a written statement of his defence:
Provided that where the defendant fails to file the written statement within the said period of thirty
days, he shall be allowed to file the same on such other day, as may be specified by the Court, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, but which shall not be later than ninety days from the date of service of
summons.]
3[1A. Duty of defendant to produce documents upon which relief is claimed or relied upon by
him.—(1) Where the defendant bases his defence upon a document or relies upon any document in his
possession or power, in support of his defence or claim for set-off or counter-claim, he shall enter such
document in a list, and shall produce it in Court when the written statement is presented by him and shall, at
the same time, deliver the document and a copy thereof, to be filed with the written statement.
(2) Where any such document is not in the possession or power of the defendant, he shall, wherever
possible, state in whose possession or power it is.
4[(3) A document which ought to be produced in Court by the defendant under this rule, but, is not so
produced shall not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evidence on his behalf at the hearing of
the suit.]
(4) Nothing in this rule shall apply to documents—
(a) produced for the cross-examination of the plaintiff's witnesses, or
(b) handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory.]
2. New facts must be specially pleaded.—The defendant must raise by his pleading all matters which
show the suit not be maintainable, or that the transaction is either void or voidable in point of law, and all
such grounds of defence as, if not raised, would be likely to take the opposite party by surprise, or would
raise issues of fact not arising out of the plaint, as, for instance, fraud, limitation, release, payment,
performance, or facts showing illegality.
3. Denial to be specific.—It shall not be sufficient for a defendant in his written statement to deny
generally the grounds alleged by the plaintiff, but the defendant must deal specifically with each
allegation of fact of which he does not admit the truth, except damages.
1. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 58, for the former heading (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
2. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 9, for rule 1 (w.e.f 1-7-2002).
3. Ins. by Act 46 of 1999, s.18 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
4. Subs. by Act 22 of 2002, s. 9, for sub-rule (3) (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).