299
(3) The State Government shall, with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of the High Court
appoint one or more persons having experience in dealing with commercial disputes to be the Judge
or Judges, of a Commercial Court, from amongst the cadre of Higher Judicial Service in the State.
4. Constitution of Commercial Division of High Courts.—(1) In all High Courts, having
ordinary civil jurisdiction, the Chief Justice of the High Court may, by order, constitute Commercial
Division having one or more Benches consisting of a single Judge for the purpose of exercising the
jurisdiction and powers conferred on it under this Act.
(2) The Chief Justice of the High Court shall nominate such Judges of the High Court who have
experience in dealing with commercial disputes to be Judges of the Commercial Division.
5. Constitution of Commercial Appellate Division.—(1) After issuing notification under
sub-section (1) of section 3 or order under sub-section (1) of section 4, the Chief Justice of the
concerned High Court shall, by order, constitute Commercial Appellate Division having one or more
Division Benches for the purpose of exercising the jurisdiction and powers conferred on it by the Act.
(2) The Chief Justice of the High Court shall nominate such Judges of the High Court who have
experience in dealing with commercial disputes to be Judges of the Commercial Appellate Division.
6. Jurisdiction of Commercial Court.—The Commercial Court shall have jurisdiction to try all
suits and applications relating to a commercial dispute of a Specified Value arising out of the entire
territory of the State over which it has been vested territorial jurisdiction.
Explanation.––For the purposes of this section, a commercial dispute shall be considered to arise
out of the entire territory of the State over which a Commercial Court has been vested jurisdiction, if
the suit or application relating to such commercial dispute has been instituted as per the provisions of
sections 16 to 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).
7. Jurisdiction of Commercial Divisions of High Courts. ––All suits and applications relating to
commercial disputes of a Specified Value filed in a High Court having ordinary original civil
jurisdiction shall be heard and disposed of by the Commercial Division of that High Court:
Provided that all suits and applications relating to commercial disputes, stipulated by an Act to lie
in a court not inferior to a District Court, and filed or pending on the original side of the High Court,
shall be heard and disposed of by the Commercial Division of the High Court:
Provided further that all suits and applications transferred to the High Court by virtue of
sub-section (4) of section 22 of the Designs Act, 2000 (16 of 2000), or section 104 of the Patents Act,
1970 (39 of 1970), shall be heard and disposed of by the Commercial Division of the High Court in
all the areas over which the High Court exercises ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
8.
Bar
against
revision
application
or
petition
against
an
interlocutory
order. ––Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no civil
revision application or petition shall be entertained against any interlocutory order of a Commercial
Court, including an order on the issue of jurisdiction, and any such challenge, subject to the provisions
of section 13, shall be raised only in an appeal against the decree of the Commercial Court.
9. Transfer of suit if counterclaim in a commercial in a commercial dispute is of Specified
Value.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) in
the event that a counterclaim filed in a suit before a civil court relating to a commercial dispute is of
Specified Value, such suit shall be transferred by the civil court to the Commercial Division or
Commercial Court, as the case may be, having territorial jurisdiction over such suit.
(2) In the event that such suit is not transferred in the manner contemplated in sub-section (1), the
Commercial Appellate Division of the High Court exercising supervisory jurisdiction over the civil
court in question may, on the application of any of the parties to the suit, withdraw such suit pending
before the civil court and transfer the same for trial or disposal to the Commercial Court or
Commercial Division or, as the case may be, having territorial jurisdiction over such suit, and such
order of transfer shall be final and binding.