95
(2) At any subsequent hearing, the Court may orally examine any party appearing in person or
present in Court, or any person, able to answer any material question relating to the suit, by whom such
party or his pleader is accompanied.
(3) The Court may, if it thinks fit, put in the course of an examination under this rule questions
suggested by either party.]
13. Substance of examination to be written.—The substance of the examination shall be reduced
to writing by the Judge, and shall form part of the record.
4. Consequence of refusal or inability of pleader to answer.—(1) Where the pleader of any party
who appears by a pleader or any such person accompanying a pleader as is referred to in rule 2, refuses
or is unable to answer any material question relating to the suit which the Court is of opinion that the
party whom he represents ought to answer, and is likely to be able to answer if interrogated in person,
the Court 2[may postpone the hearing of the suit to a day not later than seven days from the date of first
hearing] and direct that such party shall appear in person on such day.
(2) If such party fails without lawful excuse to appear in person on the day so appointed, the Court
may pronounce judgment against him, or make such order in relation to the suit as it thinks fit.
ORDER XI
Discovery and Inspection
1. Discovery by interrogatories.—In any suit the plaintiff or defendant by leave of the Court may deliver
interrogatories in writing for the examination of the opposite parties or any one or more of such parties, and
such interrogatories when delivered shall have a note at the foot thereof stating which of such interrogatories
each of such person is required to answer: Provided that no party shall deliver more than one set of
interrogatories to the same party without an order for that purpose : Provided also that interrogatories which
do not relate to any matters in question in the suit shall be deemed irrelevant, notwithstanding that they might
be admissible on the oral cross-examination of a witness.
2. Particular interrogatories to be submitted.—On an application for leave to deliver interrogatories,
the particular interrogatories proposed to be delivered shall be submitted to the Court 3[and that court shall
decide within seven days from the day of filing of the said application]. In deciding upon such application,
the Court shall take into account any offer, which may be made by the party sought to be interrogated to
deliver particulars, or to make admissions, or to produce documents relating to the matters in question, or
any of them, and leave shall be given as to such only of the interrogatories submitted as the Court shall
consider necessary either for disposing fairly of the suit or for saving costs.
3. Costs of interrogatories.—In adjusting the costs of the suit inquiry shall at the instance of any
party be made into the propriety of exhibiting such interrogatories, and if it is the opinion of the taxing
officer or of the Court, either with or without an application for inquiry, that such interrogatories have
been exhibited unreasonably, vexatiously, or at improper length, the cost occasioned by the
interrogatories and the answers thereto shall be paid in any even by the party in fault.
4. Form of interrogatories.—Interrogatories shall be in Form No. 2 in Appendix C, with such
variations as circumstances may require.
5. Corporations.—Where any party to a suit is a corporation or a body of persons, whether
incorporated or not, empowered by law to sue or be sued, whether in its own name or in the name of any
officer or other person, any opposite party may apply for an order allowing him to deliver interrogatories
to any member or officer of such corporation or body, and an order may be made accordingly.
6. Objections to interrogatories by answer.—Any objection to answering any interrogatory on the
ground that it is scandalous or irrelevant or not exhibited bona fide for the purpose of the suit, or that the
matters inquired into are not sufficiently material at that stage, 4[or on the ground of privilege or any
other ground], may be taken in the affidavit in answer.
1. This rule is not applicable to the Chief Court of Oudh, see the Oudh Court Act, 1925 (U. of 19.25), s. 16(2).
2. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 20, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
3. Ins. by s. 21, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
4. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 61, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).