18
(c) impose a fine upon him 1[not exceeding five thousand rupees];
(d) order him to furnish security for his appearance and in default commit him to the civil prison.
JUDGMENT AND DECREE
33. Judgment and decree.—The Court, after the case has been heard, shall pronounce judgment, and
on such judgment a decree shall follow.
INTEREST
34. Interest.— (1) Where and in so far as a decree is for the payment of money, the Court may, in the
decree, order interest at such rate as the Court deems reasonable to be paid on the principal sum adjudged,
from the date of the suit to the date of the decree, in addition to any interest adjudged on such principal sum
for any period prior to the institution of the suit, 2[with further interest at such rate not exceeding six per cent.
per annum as the Court deems reasonable on such principal sum], from the date of the decree to the date of
payment, or to such earlier date as the Court thinks fit :
3[Provided that where the liability in relation to the sum so adjudged had arisen out of a commercial
transaction, the rate of such further interest may exceed six per cent. per annum, but shall not exceed the
contractual rate of interest or where there is no contractual rate, the rate at which moneys are lent or
advanced by nationalised banks in relation to commercial transactions.
Explanation I.—In this Sub-section, “nationalised bank” means a corresponding new bank as defined
in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970).
Explanation II.—For the purposes of this section, a transaction is a commercial transaction, if it is
connected with the industry, trade or business of the party incurring the liability.]
(2) Where such a decree is silent with respect to the payment of further interest 4[on such principal
sum] from the date of the decree to the date of payment or other earlier date, the Court shall be deemed to
have refused such interest, and a separate suit therefor shall not lie.
COSTS
35. Costs.—(1) Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be prescribed, and to the provisions of
any law for the time being in force, the costs of and incident to all suits shall be in the discretion of the Court,
and the Court shall have full power to determine by whom or out of what property and to what extent such
costs are to be paid, and to give all necessary directions for the purposes aforesaid. The fact that the Court has
no jurisdiction to try the suit shall be no bar to the exercise of such powers.
(2) Where the Court directs that any costs shall not follow the event, the Court shall state its reasons
in writing.
5*
*
*
*
*
6[35A. Compensatory costs in respect of false or vexatious claims or defences.—(1) If in any suit
or other proceedings 7[including an execution proceeding but 8[excluding an appeal or a revision]] any
party objects to the claim or defence on the ground that the claim or defence or any part of it is, as against
the objector, false or vexatious to the knowledge of the party by whom it has been put forward, and if
thereafter, as against the objector, such claim or defence is disallowed, abandoned or withdrawn in whole
or in part, the Court, 9[if it so thinks fit], may, after recording its reasons for holding such claim or
defence to be false or vexatious, make an order for the payment to the object or by the party by whom
such claim or defence has been put forward, of cost by way of compensation.
1. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 4, for “not exceeding five thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Subs. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 2, for certain words.
3. Ins. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 13 (w.e.f. 1-7-1977).
4. Subs. by Act 66 of 1956, section 2, for “on such aggregate sum as aforesaid” (w.e.f. 1-1-1957).
5. Sub-section (3) omitted by Act 66 of 1956, s. 3.
6. S. 35A ins. by Act 9 of 1922, s. 2, which, under section 1(2) thereof may be brought into force in any State by the State
Government on any specified date. It has been so brought into force in Bombay, Bengal, U.P., Punjab, Bihar, C.P., Assam,
Orissa and Madras.
7. Subs. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 4, for “not being an appeal”.
8. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 14, for “excluding an appeal” (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
9. Subs. by Act 66 of 1956, s. 4, for “if the objection has been taken at the earliest opportunity and if it is satisfied of the justice
thereof”.