172
4. Procedure at first hearing.—(1) At the first hearing the Court may—
(a) declare that the plaintiff is discharged from all liability to the defendants in respect of the
thing claimed, award him his costs, and dismiss him from the suit; or
(b) if it thinks that justice or convenience so require, retain all parties until the final disposal of
the suit.
(2) Where the Court finds that the admission of the parties or other evidence enable it to do so, it may
adjudicate the title to the thing claimed.
(3) Where the admissions of the parties do not enable the Court so to adjudicate, it may direct—
(a) that an issue or issues between the parties be framed and tried, and
(b) that any claimant be made a plaintiff in lieu of or in addition to the original plaintiff,
and shall proceed to try the suit in the ordinary manner.
5. Agents and tenants may not institute interpleader suits.—Nothing in this Order shall be deemed
to enable agents to sue their principals, or tenants to sue their landlords, for the purpose of compelling
them to interplead with any persons other than persons making claim through such principals or landlords.
Illustrations
(a) A deposits a box of jewels with B as his agent. C alleges that the jewels were wrongfully obtained from him by A, and
claims them from B. B cannot institute an interpleader-suit against A and C.
(b) A deposits a box of jewels with B as his agent. He then writes to C for the purpose of making the jewels a security for a
debt due from himself to C. A afterwards alleges that C’s debt is satisfied, and C alleges the contrary. Both claim the jewels from
B. B may institute in interpleader-suit against A and C.
6. Charge for plaintiff’s costs.—Where the suit is properly instituted the Court may provide for the
costs of the original plaintiff by giving him a charge on the thing claimed or in some other effectual way.
ORDER XXXVI
Special Case
1. Power to state case for Court’s opinion.—(1) Parties claiming to be interested in the decision of
any question of fact or law may enter into an agreement in writing stating such question in the form of a
case for the opinion of the Court, and providing that, upon the finding of the Court with respect to such
question,—
(a) a sum of money fixed by the parties or to be determined by the Court shall be paid by one of
the parties to the other of them; or
(b) some property, movable or immovable, specified in the agreement, shall be delivered by one
of the parties to the other of them; or
(c) one or more of the parties shall do, or refrain from doing, some other particular act specified
in the agreement.
(2) Every case stated under this rule shall be divided into consecutively numbered paragraphs, and
shall concisely state such facts and specify such documents as may be necessary to enable the Court to
decide the question raised thereby.
2. Where value of subject-matter must be stated.—Where the agreement is for the delivery of any
property, or for the doing, or the refraining from doing, any particular act, the estimated value of the
property to be delivered, or to which the act specified has reference, shall be stated in the agreement.