230
Upon hearing and upon reading the affidavit of …. filed the ………… day
of………19……….; It is ordered that the………..be at liberty to deliver to the……… interrogatories in
writing, and that the said……….do answer the interrogatories as prescribed by Order XI, rule 8, and that
the costs of this application be…………..
No.2
INTERROGATORIES (O. 11, r. 4.)
(Title as in No. 1, supra)
Interrogatories on behalf of the above-named [Plaintiff or defendant C. D.] for the examination of
the above-named [defendants E.F. and G.H. or Plaintiff].
1. Did not, etc.
2. Has not, etc.
etc., etc., etc.
[The defendant E.F. is required to answer the interrogatories numbered .]
[The defendant G.H. is required to answer the interrogatories numbered .]
No. 3
ANSWER TO INTERROGATORIES (O. 11, r. 9.)
(Title as in No. 1, supra)
The answer of the above-named defendant E. F., to the interrogatories for his examination by the
above-named plaintiff.
In answer of the said interrogatories, I, the above-named E. F., make oath and say as follows:—
1.
2. Enter answers to interrogatories in paragraphs numbered consecutively.
3. I object to answer the interrogatories numbered on the ground that [state grounds of
objection].
No. 4
ORDER FOR AFFIDAVIT AS TODOCUMENTS(O. 11, r. 12.)
(Title as in No. 1, supra)
Upon hearing………………; It is ordered that the………..do within………….. day form the date of
this order, answer on affidavit stating which documents are or have been in his possession or power
relating to the matter in question in this suit, and that the costs of this application be…………………… .
No. 5
AFFIDAVIT AS TO DOCUMENTS (O. 11, r. 13.)
(Title as in No. 1, supra)
I, the above-named defendant C. D., make oath and say as follows:—
1. I have in my possession or power the documents relating to the matters in question in this suit
set forth in the first and second parts of the first schedule hereto.
2. I object to produce the said documents set forth in the second part of the first schedule hereto
[stale grounds of objection.]
3. I have had but have not now, in my possession or power the documents relating to the matters
in question in this suit set forth in the second schedule hereto.
4. The last-mentioned documents were last in my possession or power on. [State when and what
has become of them and in whose possession they now are.]