215
No. 49
PARTNERSHIP
(Title)
A.B., the above-named plaintiff, states as follows:—
1. He and C.D., the defendant, have been for years [or months] past carrying on business
together under articles of partnership in writing [or under a deed, or under a verbal agreement].
2. Several disputes and differences have arisen between the plaintiff and defendant as such partners whereby
it has become impossible to carry on the business in partnership with advantage to the partners. [or the defendant
has committed the following breaches of the partnership articles:—
(1)
(2)
(3)
.]
[As in paras.4 and 5 of Form No. 1.]
5. The plaintiff claims—
(1) dissolution of the partnership;
(2) that accounts be taken;
(3) that a receiver be appointed
(N.B.—In suits for the winding-up of any partnership, omit the claim for dissolution; and instead insert a
paragraph stating the facts of the partnership having been dissolved.)
4. WRITTEN STATEMENTS
General Defences
Denial.—The defendant denies that (set out facts).
The defendant does not admit that (set out facts).
The defendant admits that………………but says that……………
The defendant denies that he is a partner in the defendant firm of……………………
Protest.—The defendant denies that he made the contract alleged or any contract with the plaintiff. The
defendant denies that he contracted with the plaintiff’s alleged or at all.
The defendant admits assets but not the plaintiffs claim.
The defendant denies that the plaintiff sold to him the goods mentioned in the plaint or any of them.
Limitation.—The suit is barred by article or article of the Second
Schedule to the Indian1 Limitation Act, 1877 (15 of 1877).
Jurisdiction.—The Court has no jurisdiction to hear the suit on the ground that (set forth the grounds).
On the day of a diamond ring was delivered
by the defendant to and accepted by the plaintiff in discharge of the alleged cause of action.
Insolvency.—The defendant has been adjudged an insolvent.
The plaintiff before the institution of the suit was adjudged an insolvent and the right to sue vested in
the receiver.
Minority.—The defendant was a minor at the time of making the alleged contract.
1. See now the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963).