227
(a) Enter fully and exactly the manner in which the process was served, with special reference to
Order 5, rules 15 and 17.
(b) Signature of process-server.
or,
If substituted service has been ordered, state fully and exactly the manner in which the summons was
served with special reference to the terms of the order for substituted service.
Sworn
by the said before me
Affirmed
this day of 19……….
Empowered under section 139 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, to
administer the oath to deponents.
No. 12
NOTICE TO DEFENDANT
(O. 9, r. 6.)
(Title)
To
[Name, description and place of residence.]
WHEREAS this day was fixed for the hearing of the above suit and a summons was issued to you and
the plaintiff has appeared in this Court and you did not so appear, but from the return of the Nazir it has
been proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the said summons was served on you but not in
sufficient time to enable you to appear and answer on the day fixed in the said summons;
Notice is hereby given to you that the hearing of the suit is adjourned this day and that the day of
19
is now fixed for the hearing of the same; in default of your appearance on the day last
mentioned the suit will be heard and determined in your absence.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this dayof19
Judge.
No. 13
SUMMONS TO WITNESS
(O. 16, rr. 1, 5.)
(Title)
To
WHEREAS your attendance is required to……………
on behalf of the in the above
suit, you are hereby required [personally] to appear before this Court on the day
of… 19……… at o’clock in the forenoon, and to bring with you [or to
send to this…….Court].
A sum of Rs being your travelling and other expenses and subsistence allowance for one
day, is herewith sent. If you fail to comply with this order without lawful excuse, you will be subject to
the consequences of non-attendance laid down in rule 12 of Order XVI of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the Court, this… day of 19
Judge.
NOTICE.—(1) If you are summoned only to produce a document and not to give evidence, you shall
be deemed to have complied with the summons if you cause such document to be produced in this Court
on the day and hour aforesaid.
(2) If you are detained beyond the day aforesaid, a sum of Rs will be
tendered to you for each day's attendance beyond the day specified.