237
2. And it is hereby ordered and decreed as follows:—
(i) that the defendant do pay into Court on or before the day of or
any later date up to which time for payment may be extended by the Court of the said sum of
Rs
(ii) that, on such payment and on payment thereafter before such date as the Court may fix of such
amount as the Court may adjudge due in respect of such costs of the suit and such costs, charges and
expenses as may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be payable
under rule 11, of Order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the
plaintiff shall bring into Court all documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged
property in the plaint mentioned, and all such documents shall be delivered over to the defendant, or to
such person as he appoints, and the plaintiff shall, if so required, re-convey or re-transfer the said
property free from the said mortgage and clear of and from all encumbrances created by the plaintiff or
any person claiming under him or any person under whom he claims and free from all liability
whatsoever arising from the mortgage or this suit and shall, if so required, deliver up to the defendant
quiet and peaceable possession of the said property.
3. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, in default of payment as aforesaid, the plaintiff
may apply to the Court for a final decree that the defendant shall thenceforth stand absolutely debarred
and foreclosed of and from all right to redeem the mortgaged property described in the Schedule annexed
hereto and shall, if so required, deliver up to the plaintiff quiet and peaceable possession of the said
property; and that the parties shall be at liberty to apply to the Court from time to time as they may have
occasion, and on such application or otherwise the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit.
Schedule
Description of the mortgaged property
No. 4
FINAL DECREE FOR FORECLOSURE
(Order XXXIV, rule 3.)
(Title)
Upon reading the preliminary decree passed in this suit on the……… day of and
further orders (if any) dated the…………..day of………… and the application of the plaintiff dated
the……………day of………… for a final decree and after hearing the parties and it appearing that
the payment directed by the said decree and orders has not been made by the defendant or any person on
his behalf or any other person entitled to redeem the said mortgage :
It is hereby ordered and decreed that the defendant and all persons claiming through or under him be
and they are hereby absolutely debarred and foreclosed of and from all right of redemption of and in the
property in the aforesaid preliminary decree mentioned; 1[and (if the defendant be in possession of the
said mortgaged property) that the defendant shall deliver to the plaintiff quiet and peaceable possession
of the said mortgaged properly].
2. And it is hereby further declared that the whole of the liability whatsoever of the defendant up to
this day arising from the said mortgage mentioned in the plaint or from this suit is hereby discharged and
extinguished.
No.5
PRELIMINARY DECREE FOR SALE
(Order XXXIV, rule 4.—Where accounts are directed to be taken.)
(Title)
This suit coming on this day, etc.; It is hereby ordered and decreed that it be
referred to as the Commissioner to take the accounts following:—
(i) an account of what is due on this date to the plaintiff for principal and interest on his
mortgage mentioned in the plaint (such interest to be computed at the rate payable on the principal or
where no such rate is fixed, at six per cent. per annum or at such rate as the Court deems reasonable);
1. Words not required to be deleted.