99
4. Notice to admit acts.—Any party may, by notice in writing, at any time not later than nine days
before the day fixed for the hearing, call on any other party to admit, for the purposes of the suit only, any
specific fact or facts, mentioned in such notice. And in case of refusal or neglect to admit the same within
six days after service of such notice, or within such further time as may be allowed by the Court, the costs
of proving such factor facts shall be paid by the party so neglecting or refusing, whatever the result of the
suit may be, unless the Court otherwise directs:
Provided that any admission made in pursuance of such notice is to be deemed to be made only for
the purposes of the particular suit, and not as an admission to be used against the party on any other
occasion or in favour of any person other than the party giving the notice:
1*
*
*
*
*
5. Form of admissions.—A notice to admit facts shall be in Form No. 10 in Appendix C, and
admissions of facts shall be in Form No. 11 in Appendix C, with such variations as circumstances may
require.
2[6. Judgment on admissions.—(1) Where admissions of fact have been made either in the pleading
or otherwise, whether orally or in writing, the Court may at any stage of the suit, either on the application
of any party or of its own motion and without waiting for the determination of any other question-between
the parties, make such order or give such judgment as it may think fit, having regard to such admissions.
(2) Whenever a judgment is pronounced under sub-rule (1) a decree shall be drawn up in accordance
with the judgment and the decree shall bear the date on which the judgment was pronounced.]
7. Affidavit of signature.—An affidavit of the pleader or his clerk, of the due signature of any
admissions made in pursuance of any notice to admit documents or facts, shall be sufficient evidenced of
such admissions, if evidence thereof is required.
8. Notice to produce documents.—Notice to produce documents shall be in Form No. 12 in Appendix
C, with such variations as circumstances may require. An affidavit of the pleader, or his clerk, of the service
of any notice to produce, and of the time when it was served, with a copy of the notice to produce, shall in all
cases be sufficient evidence of the service of the notice, and of the time when it was served.
9. Costs.—If a notice to admit or produce specifies documents which are not necessary, the costs
occasioned thereby shall be borne by the party giving such notice.
ORDER XIII
Production, Impounding and Return of Documents
3[1. Original documents to be produced at or before the settlement of issues.—(1) The parties or
their pleader shall produce on or before the settlement of issues, all the documentary evidence in original
where the copies thereof have been filed along with plaint or written statement.
(2) The Court shall receive the documents so produced:
Provided that they are accompanied by an accurate list thereof prepared in such form as the High
Court directs.
(3) Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall apply to documents—
(a) produced for the cross-examination of the witnesses of the other party; or
(b) handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory.]
3. Rejection of irrelevant or inadmissible documents.—The Court may at any stage of the suit reject
any document which it considers irrelevant or otherwise inadmissible, recording the grounds of such
rejection.
1. Second proviso omitted by Act 46 of 1999, s. 22 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).
2. Subs. by Act 104 of 1976, s. 62, for rule 6 (w.e.f. 1-2-1977).
3. Subs. by Act 46 of 1999, s. 23, for rules 1 and 2 (w.e.f. 1-7-2002).