247
(ii) that, on payment of the sum declared to be due to the plaintiff by defendants or either of them in
the manner prescribed in clause (i) (a) and on payment thereafter before such date as the Court may fix of
such amount as the Court may adjudge due in respect of such costs of the suit and such costs, charges and
expenses as may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be payable
under rule 11, of Order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the plaintiff
shall bring into Court all documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged property in the
plaint mentioned, and all such documents shall be delivered over to the defendant No………. (who has
made the payment), or to such person as he appoints, and the plaintiff shall, if so required, re-convey or
re-transfer the said property free from the said mortgage and clear of and from all encumbrances created
by the plaintiff or any person claiming under him or any person under whom he claims, and also free
from all liability whatsoever arising from the mortgage or this suit and shall, if so required, deliver up to
the defendant No……… (who has made the payment) quiet and peaceable possession of the said
property.
(Similar declarations to be introduced, if defendant No. 1 pays the amount found or declared to be
due to defendant No. 2 with such variations as may be necessary having regard to the nature of his
mortgage).
4. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed that, in default of payment as aforesaid of the amount
due to the plaintiff, the plaintiff shall be at liberty to apply to the Court for a final decree—
(i) 1[in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale or an anomalous mortgage where the only
remedy provided for in the mortgage-deed is foreclosure and not sale] that the defendants jointly and
severally shall thenceforth stand absolutely debarred and foreclosed of and from all right to redeem
the mortgaged property described in the Schedule annexed hereto and shall, if so required, deliver to
the plaintiff quiet and peaceable possession of the said property; or
(ii) 1[in the case of any other mortgage] that the mortgaged property or a sufficient part thereof
shall be sold; and that for the purposes of such sale the plaintiff shall produce before Court or such
officer as it appoints, all documents in his possession or power relating to the mortgaged property;
and
(iii) 1[in the case where a sale is ordered under clause 4 (ii) above] that the money realised by
such sale shall be paid into Court and be duly applied (after deduction therefrom of the expenses of
the sale) in payment of the amount payable to the plaintiff under this decree and under any further
orders that may have been passed in this suit and in payment of the amount which the Court may
adjudge due to the plaintiff in respect of such costs of the suit and such costs, charges and expenses as
may be payable under rule 10, together with such subsequent interest as may be payable under rule
11, of Order XXXIV of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, and that the balance,
if any, shall be applied in payment of the amount due to defendant No. 2; and that if any balance be
left, it shall be paid to the defendant No. 1 or other persons entitled to receive the same; and
(iv) that, if the money realised by such sale shall not be sufficient for payment in full of the
amounts due to the plaintiff and defendant No. 2, the plaintiff or defendant No. 2 or both of them, as
the case may be, shall be at liberty (when such remedy is open under the terms of their respective
mortgages and is not barred by any law for the time being in force) to apply for a personal decree
against defendant No. 1 for the amounts remaining due to them respectively.
5. And it is hereby further ordered and decreed—
(a) that if defendant No. 2 pays into Court to the credit of this suit the amount adjudged due to the
plaintiff, but defendant No. 1 makes default in the payment of the said amount, defendant No. 2 shall
be at liberty to apply to the Court to keep the plaintiff's mortgage alive for his benefit and to apply for
a final decree (in the same manner as the plaintiff might have done under clause 4 above)—
1[(i) that defendant No. 1 shall thenceforth stand absolutely debarred and foreclosed of and
from all right to redeem the mortgaged property described in the Schedule annexed hereto and
shall, if so required, deliver up to defendant No. 2 quiet and peaceable possession of the said
property;] or
1. Words not required to be deleted.