91
the accused is able to give security, shall take security from him for his appearance before such Magistrate on a day
fixed and for his attendance from day to day before such Magistrate until otherwise directed.
(2) When the officer in charge of a police station forwards an accused person to a Magistrate or takes security
for his appearance before such Magistrate under this section, he shall send to such Magistrate any weapon or other
article which it may be necessary to produce before him, and shall require the complainant (if any) and so many of
the persons who appear to such officer to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case as he may think
necessary, to execute a bond to appear before the Magistrate as thereby directed and prosecute or give evidence (as
the case may be) in the matter of the charge against the accused.
(3) If the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate is mentioned in the bond, such Court shall be held to include
any Court to which such Magistrate may refer the case for inquiry or trial, provided reasonable notice of such
reference is given to such complainant or persons.
(4) The officer in whose presence the bond is executed shall deliver a copy thereof to one of the persons who
executed it, and shall then send to the Magistrate the original with his report.
171. Complainant and witnesses not to be required to accompany police officer and not to be subjected to
restraint.—No complainant or witness on his way to any Court shall be required to accompany a police officer, or
shall be subjected to unnecessary restraint or inconvenience, or required to give any security for his appearance
other than his own bond:
Provided that, if any complainant or witness refuses to attend or to execute a bond as directed in section 170, the
officer in charge of the police station may forward him in custody to the Magistrate, who may detain him in custody
until he executes such bond, or until the hearing of the case is completed.
172. Diary of proceedings in investigation.—(1) Every police officer making an investigation under this
Chapter shall day by day enter his proceedings in the investigation in a diary, setting forth the time at which the
information reached him, the time at which he began and closed his investigation, the place or places visited by him,
and a statement of the circumstances ascertained through his investigation.
1[(1A) The statements of witnesses recorded during the course of investigation under section 161 shall be
inserted in the case diary.
(1B) The diary referred to in sub-section (1) shall be a volume and duly paginated.]
(2) Any Criminal Court may send for the police diaries of a case under inquiry or trial in such Court, and may
use such diaries, not as evidence in the case, but to aid it in such inquiry or trial.
(3) Neither the accused nor his agents shall be entitled to call for such diaries, nor shall he or they be entitled to
see them merely because they are referred to by the Court; but, if they are used by the police officer who made them
to refresh his memory, or if the Court uses them for the purpose of contradicting such police officer, the provisions
of section 161 or section 145, as the case may be, of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), shall apply.
173. Report of police officer on completion of investigation.—(1) Every investigation under this Chapter
shall be completed without unnecessary delay.
2[(1A) The investigation in relation to 3[an offence under sections 376, 376A, 376AB, 376B, 376C, 376D, 376DA,
376DB or 376E] from the date on which the information was recorded by the officer in charge of the police station.]
(2) (i) As soon as it is completed, the officer in charge of the police station shall forward to a Magistrate
empowered to take cognizance of the offence on a police report, a report in the form prescribed by the State
Government, stating—
(a) the names of the parties;
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 15 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).
2. Ins. by s. 16, ibid., (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).
3. Subs. by Act 22 of 2018, s. 14, for “rape of a child may be completed within three months” (w.e.f. 21-4-2018).