61
108. Security for good behaviour from persons disseminating seditious matters.—(1) When 1[an Executive
Magistrate] receives information that there is within his local jurisdiction any person who, within or without such
jurisdiction,—
(i) either orally or in writing or in any other manner, intentionally disseminates or attempts to disseminate
or abets the dissemination of,—
(a) any matter the publication of which is punishable under section 124A or section 153A or section
153B or section 295A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or
(b) any matter concerning a Judge acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duties
which amounts to criminal intimidation or defamation under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),
(ii) makes, produces, publishes or keeps for sale, imports, exports, conveys, sells, lets to hire,
distributes, publicly exhibits or in any other manner puts into circulation any obscene matter such as is referred
to in section 292 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),
and the Magistrate is of opinion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding, the Magistrate may, in the manner
hereinafter provided, require such person to show cause why he should not be ordered to execute a bond, with or
without sureties, for his good behaviour for such period, not exceeding one year, as the Magistrate thinks fit.
(2) No proceedings shall be taken under this section against the editor, proprietor, printer or publisher of any
publication registered under, and edited, printed and published in conformity with, the rules laid down in the Press
and Registration of Books Act, 1867 (25 of 1867), with reference to any matter contained in such publication except
by the order or under the authority of the State Government or some officer empowered by the State Government in
this behalf.
109. Security for good behaviour from suspected persons.—When 2[an Executive Magistrate] receives
information that there is within his local jurisdiction a person taking precautions to conceal his presence and that
there is reason to believe that he is doing so with a view to committing a cognizable offence, the Magistrate may, in
the manner hereinafter provided, require such person to show cause why he should not be ordered to execute a bond,
with or without sureties, for his good behaviour for such period, not exceeding one year, as the Magistrate thinks fit.
110. Security for good behaviour from habitual offenders.—When 2[an Executive Magistrate] receives
information that there is within his local jurisdiction a person who—
(a) is by habit a robber, house-breaker, thief, or forger, or
(b) is by habit a receiver of stolen property knowing the same to have been stolen, or
(c) habitually protects or harbours thieves, or aids in the concealment or disposal of stolen property, or
(d) habitually commits, or attempts to commit, or abets the commission of, the offence of kidnapping,
abduction, extortion, cheating or mischief, or any offence punishable under Chapter XII of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860), or under section 489A, section 489B, section 489C or section 489D of that Code, or
(e) habitually commits, or attempts to commit, or abets the commission of, offences, involving a breach of
the peace, or
(f) habitually commits, or attempts to commit, or abets the commission of—
(i) any offence under one or more of the following Acts, namely:—
(a) the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (23 of 1940);
1. Subs. by Act 63 of 1980, s. 2, for “a Judicial Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 23-9-1980).