161
361. Special reasons to be recorded in certain cases.—Where in any case the Court could have dealt with,—
(a) an accused person under section 360 or under the provisions of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958
(20 of 1958); or
(b) a youthful offender under the Children Act, 1960 (60 of 1960) or any other law for the time being in
force for the treatment, training or rehabilitation of youthful offenders,
but has not done so, it shall record in its judgment the special reasons for not having done so.
362. Court not to alter judgment.—Save as otherwise provided by this Code or by any other law for the time
being in force, no Court, when it has signed its judgment or final order disposing of a case, shall alter or review the
same except to correct a clerical or arithmetical error.
363. Copy of judgment to be given to the accused and other persons.—(1) When the accused is sentenced to
imprisonment, a copy of the judgment shall, immediately after the pronouncement of the judgment, be given to him
free of cost.
(2) On the application of the accused, a certified copy of the judgment, or when he so desires, a translation in
his own language if practicable or in the language of the Court, shall be given to him without delay, and such copy
shall, in every case where the judgment is appealable by the accused, be given free of cost:
Provided that where a sentence of death is passed or confirmed by the High Court, a certified copy of the
judgment shall be immediately given to the accused free of cost whether or not he applies for the same.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (2) shall apply in relation to an order under section 117 as they apply in
relation to a judgment which is appealable by the accused.
(4) When the accused is sentenced to death by any Court and an appeal lies from such judgment as of right, the
Court shall inform him of the period within which, if he wishes to appeal, his appeal should be preferred.
(5) Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), any person affected by a judgment or order passed by a
Criminal Court shall, on an application made in this behalf and on payment of the prescribed charges, be given a
copy of such judgment or order or of any deposition or other part of the record:
Provided that the Court may, if it thinks fit for some special reason, give it to him free of cost.
(6) The High Court may, by rules, provide for the grant of copies of any judgment or order of a Criminal Court
to any person who is not affected by a judgment or order, on payment, by such person, of such fees, and subject to
such conditions, as the High Court may, by such rules, provide.
STATE AMENDMENT
Karnataka
Amendment of section 363.- In section 363 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act of
1974), after the proviso to sub-section (5), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:—
“Provided further that the State shall, on an application made in this behalf by the Prosecuting Officer
be given, free of cost, a certified copy of such judgement, order, deposition or record with the prescribed
endorsement”.
[Vide Karnataka Act 19 of 1985, s. 2.]
364. Judgment when to be translated.—The original judgment shall be filed with the record of the
proceedings and where the original is recorded in a language different from that of the Court, and the accused so
requires, a translation thereof into the language of the Court shall be added to such record.
365. Court of Session to send copy of finding and sentence to District Magistrate.—In cases tried by the Court