65
three years.
(4) If security has been required in the course of the same proceeding from two or more persons in respect
of any one of whom the proceedings are referred to the Sessions Judge under sub-section (2) such reference shall
also include the case of any other of such persons who has been order to give security, and the provisions of
sub-sections (2) and (3) shall, in that event, apply to the case of such other person also, except that the period (if
any) for which he may be imprisoned, shall not exceed the period for which he was ordered to give security.
(5) A Sessions Judge may in his discretion transfer any proceedings laid before him under sub-section (2) or
sub-section (4) to an Additional Sessions Judge or Assistant Sessions Judge and upon such transfer, such Additional
Sessions Judge or Assistant Sessions Judge may exercise the powers of a Sessions Judge under this section in
respect of such proceedings.
(6) If the security is tendered to the officer in charge of the jail, he shall forthwith refer the matter to the Court
or Magistrate who made the order, and shall await the orders of such Court or Magistrate.
(7) Imprisonment for failure to give security for keeping the peace shall be simple.
(8) Imprisonment for failure to give security for good behaviour shall, where the proceedings have been taken
under section 108, be simple, and, where the proceedings have been taken under section 109 or section 110, be
rigorous or simple as the Court or Magistrate in each case directs.
123. Power to release persons imprisoned for failing to give security.—(1) Whenever 1[the District
Magistrate in the case of an order passed by an Executive Magistrate under section 117, or the Chief Judicial
Magistrate in any other case] is of opinion that any person imprisoned for failing to give security under this Chapter
may be released without hazard to the community or to any other person, he may order such person to be
discharged.
(2) Whenever any person has been imprisoned for failing to give security under this Chapter, the High Court or
Court of Session, or, where the order was made by any other Court, 2[District Magistrate, in the case of an order
passed by an Executive Magistrate under section 117, or the Chief Judicial Magistrate in any other case], may make
an order reducing the amount of the security or the number of sureties or the time for which security has been
required.
(3) An order under sub-section (1) may direct the discharge of such person either without conditions or upon
any conditions which such person accepts:
Provided that any condition imposed shall cease to be operative when the period for which such person was
ordered to give security has expired.
(4) The State Government may prescribe the conditions upon which a conditional discharge may be made.
(5) If any condition upon which any person has been discharged is, in the opinion of 2[District Magistrate, in the
case of an order passed by an Executive Magistrate under section 117, or the Chief Judicial Magistrate in any other
case] by whom the order of discharge was made or of his successor, not fulfilled, he may cancel the same.
(6) When a conditional order of discharge has been cancelled under sub-section (5), such person may be
arrested by any police officer without warrant, and shall thereupon be produced before the 3[District Magistrate, in
the case of an order passed by an Executive Magistrate under section 117, or the Chief Judicial Magistrate in any
other case].
(7) Unless such person gives security in accordance with the terms of the original order for the unexpired
portion of the term for which he was in the first instance committed or ordered to be detained (such portion being
deemed to be a period equal to the period between the date of the breach of the conditions of discharge and the date
on which, except for such conditional discharge, he would have been entitled to release), 1[District Magistrate, in the
1. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 12, for “the Chief Judicial Magistrate” (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
2. Subs. by s. 12, ibid., for “Chief Judicial Magistrate” (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
3. Subs. by s. 12, ibid., for “Chief Judicial Magistrate” (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).