177
is to be made; and if the amount of the fine or of any instalment, as the case may be, is not realised on or before
the latest date on which it is payable under the order, the Court may direct the sentence of imprisonment to be
carried into execution at once.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall be applicable also in any case in which an order for the payment of
money has been made on non-recovery of which imprisonment may be awarded and the money is not paid
forthwith; and, if the person against whom the order has been made, on being required to enter into a bond such as is
referred to in that sub-section, fails to do so, the Court may at once pass sentence of imprisonment.
D.—General provisions regarding execution
425. Who may issue warrant.—Every warrant for the execution of a sentence may be issued either by the
Judge or Magistrate who passed the sentence, or by his successor-in-office.
426. Sentence on escaped convict when to take effect.—(1) When a sentence of death, imprisonment for life
or fine is passed under this Code on an escaped convict, such sentence shall, subject to the provisions hereinbefore
contained, take effect immediately.
(2) When a sentence of imprisonment for a term is passed under this Code on an escaped convict,—
(a) if such sentence is severer in kind than the sentence which such convict was undergoing when he
escaped, the new sentence shall take effect immediately;
(b) if such sentence is not severer in kind than the sentence which such convict was undergoing when he
escaped, the new sentence shall take effect after he has suffered imprisonment for a further period equal to that
which, at the time of his escape, remained unexpired of his former sentence.
(3) For the purposes of sub-section (2), a sentence of rigorous imprisonment shall be deemed to be severer in
kind than a sentence of simple imprisonment.
427. Sentence on offender already sentenced for another offence.—(1) When a person already undergoing a
sentence of imprisonment is sentenced on a subsequent conviction to imprisonment or imprisonment for life, such
imprisonment or imprisonment for life shall commence at the expiration of the imprisonment to which he has been
previously sentenced, unless the Court directs that the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently with such previous
sentence:
Provided that where a person who has been sentenced to imprisonment by an order under section 122 in default
of furnishing security is, whilst undergoing such sentence, sentenced to imprisonment for an offence committed
prior to the making of such order, the latter sentence shall commence immediately.
(2) When a person already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment for life is sentenced on a subsequent
conviction to imprisonment for a term or imprisonment for life, the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently with
such previous sentence.
428. Period of detention undergone by the accused to be set off against the sentence of imprisonment.—
Where an accused person has, on conviction, been sentenced to imprisonment for a term, 1[, not being imprisonment
in default of payment of fine], the period of detention, if any, undergone by him during the investigation, inquiry or
trial of the same case and before the date of such conviction, shall be set off against the term of imprisonment
imposed on him on such conviction, and the liability of such person to undergo imprisonment on such conviction
shall be restricted to the remainder, if any, of the term of imprisonment imposed on him:
2[Provided that in cases referred to in section 433A, such period of detention shall be set off against the period
of fourteen years referred to in that section.]
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 31 (w.e.f.18-12-1978).
2. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 34 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).