98
Magistrate or Chief Judicial Magistrate, as the case may be, may, after taking cognizance of an offence, make
over the case for enquiry or trial to such other competent Magistrate as the District Magistrate or Chief Judicial
Magistrate may, by general or special order, specify, and thereupon such Magistrate may hold the enquiry or
trail.
[Vide Assam Act 3 of 1984, s. 3(3) and the Schedule.]
193. Cognizance of offences by Courts of Session.—Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Code or
by any other law for the time being in force, no Court of Session shall take cognizance of any offence as a Court of
original jurisdiction unless the case has been committed to it by a Magistrate under this Code.
194. Additional and Assistant Sessions Judges to try cases made over to them.—As Additional Sessions
Judge or Assistant Sessions Judge shall try such cases as the Sessions Judge of the division may, by general or
special order, make over to him for trial or as the High Court may, by special order, direct him to try.
195. Prosecution for contempt of lawful authority of public servants, for offences against public justice
and for offences relating to documents given in evidence.—(1) No Court shall take cognizance—
(a) (i) of any offence punishable under sections 172 to 188 (both inclusive) of the Indian Penal Code,
(45 of 1860), or
(ii) of any abetment of, or attempt to commit, such offence, or
(iii) of any criminal conspiracy to commit such offence,
except on the complaint in writing of the public servant concerned or of some other public servant to whom he is
administratively subordinate;
(b) (i) of any offence punishable under any of the following sections of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),
namely, sections 193 to 196 (both inclusive), 199, 200, 205 to 211 (both inclusive) and 228, when such offence
is alleged to have been committed in, or in relation to, any proceeding in any Court, or
(ii) of any offence described in section 463, or punishable under section 471, section 475 or section 476, of
the said Code, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in respect of a document produced or given
in evidence in a proceeding in any Court, or
(iii) of any criminal conspiracy to commit, or attempt to commit, or the abetment of, any offence specified
in sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii),
1[except on the complaint in writing of that Court or by such officer of the Court as that Court may authorise in
writing in this behalf, or of some other Court to which that Court is subordinate.]
(2) Where a complaint has been made by a public servant under clause (a) of sub-section (1) any authority to
which he is administratively subordinate may order the withdrawal of the complaint and send a copy of such order to
the Court; and upon its receipt by the Court, no further proceedings shall be taken on the complaint:
Provided that no such withdrawal shall be ordered if the trial in the Court of first instance has been concluded.
(3) In clause (b) of sub-section (1), the term “Court” means a Civil, Revenue or Criminal Court, and includes a
tribunal constituted by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act if declared by that Act to be a Court for the
purposes of this section.
(4) For the purposes of clause (b) of sub-section (1), a Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the Court to
which appeals ordinarily lie from the appealable decrees or sentences of such former Court, or in the case of a Civil
Court from whose decrees no appeal ordinarily lies, to the Principal Court having ordinary original civil jurisdiction
within whose local jurisdiction such Civil Court is situate:
Provided that—
(a) where appeals lie to more than one Court, the Appellate Court of inferior jurisdiction shall be the Court
1. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, s. 3, for certain words (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).