110
Illustration
A is accused of a theft on one occasion, and of causing grievous hurt on another occasion. A must be separately charged and
separately tried for the theft and causing grievous hurt.
219. Three offences of same kind within year may be charged together.—(1) When a person is
accused of more offences than one of the same kind committed within the space of twelve months from
the first to the last of such offences, whether in respect of the same person or not, he may be charged with,
and tried at one trial for, any number of them not exceeding three.
(2) Offences are of the same kind when they are punishable with the same amount of punishment
under the same section of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or of any special or local law:
Provided that, for the purposes of this section, an offence punishable under section 379 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860) shall be deemed to be an offence of the same kind as an offence punishable
under section 380 of the said Code, and that an offence punishable under any section of the said Code, or
of any special or local law, shall be deemed to be an offence of the same kind as an attempt to commit
such offence, when such an attempt is an offence.
220. Trial for more than one offence.—(1) If, in one series of acts so connected together as to form
the same transaction, more offences than one are committed by the same person, he may be charged with,
and tried at one trial for, every such offence.
(2) When a person charged with one or more offences of criminal breach of trust or dishonest
misappropriation of property as provided in sub-section (2) of section 212 or in sub-section (1) of section
219, is accused of committing, for the purpose of facilitating or concealing the commission of that offence
or those offences, one or more offences of falsification of accounts, he may be charged with, and tried at
one trial for, every such offence.
(3) If the acts alleged constitute an offence falling within two or more separate definitions of any law
in force for the time being by which offences are defined or punished, the person accused of them may be
charged with, and tried at one trial for, each of such offences.
(4) If several acts, of which one or more than one would by itself or themselves constitute an offence,
constitute when combined a different offence, the person accused of them may be charged with, and tried
at one trial for the offence constituted by such acts when combined, and for any offence constituted by
any one, or more, of such acts.
(5) Nothing contained in this section shall affect section 71 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
Illustrations to sub-section (1)
(a) A rescues B, a person in lawful custody, and in so doing causes grievous hurt to C, a constable in whose custody B
was. A may be charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections 225 and 333 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(b) A commits house-breaking by day with intent to commit adultery, and commits, in the house so entered, adultery
with B's wife. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections 454 and 497 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860).
(c) A entices B, the wife of C, away from C, with intent to commit adultery with B, and then commits adultery with
her. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections 498 and 497 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860).
(d) A has in his possession several seals, knowing them to be counterfeit and intending to use them for the purpose of
committing several forgeries punishable under section 466 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). A may be separately