108
respect of which, it was committed, as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter
with which he is charged.
(2) When the accused is charged with criminal breach of trust or dishonest misappropriation of money
or other movable property, it shall be sufficient to specify the gross sum or, as the case may be, describe
the movable property in respect of which the offence is alleged to have been committed, and the dates
between which the offence is alleged to have been committed, without specifying particular items or exact
dates, and the charge so framed shall be deemed to be a charge of one offence within the meaning of
section 219:
Provided that the time included between the first and last of such dates shall not exceed one year.
213. When manner of committing offence must be stated.—When the nature of the case is such
that the particulars mentioned in sections 211 and 212 do not give the accused sufficient notice of the
matter with which he is charged, the charge shall also contain such particulars of the manner in which the
alleged offence was committed as will be sufficient for that purpose.
Illustrations
(a) A is accused of the theft of a certain article at a certain time and place. The charge need not set out the manner in
which the theft was effected.
(b) A is accused of cheating B at a given time and place. The charge must set out the manner in which A cheated B.
(c) A is accused of giving false evidence at a given time and place. The charge must set out that portion of the
evidence given by A which is alleged to be false.
(d) A is accused of obstructing B, a public servant, in the discharge of his public functions at a given time and place.
The charge must set out the manner in which A obstructed B in the discharge of his functions.
(e) A is accused of the murder of B at a given time and place. The charge need not state the manner in which A
murdered B.
(f) A is accused of disobeying a direction of the law with intent to save B from punishment. The charge must set out the
disobedience charged and the law infringed.
214. Words in charge taken in sense of law under which offence is punishable.—In every charge
words used in describing an offence shall be deemed to have been used in the sense attached to them
respectively by the law under which such offence is punishable.
215. Effect of errors.— No error in stating either the offence or the particulars required to be stated
in the charge, and no omission to state the offence or those particulars, shall be regarded at any stage of
the case as material, unless the accused was in fact misled by such error or omission, and it has
occasioned a failure of justice.
Illustrations
(a) A is charged under section 242 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), with “having been in possession of
counterfeit coin, having known at the time when he became possessed thereof that such coin was counterfeit,” the word
“fraudulently” being omitted in the charge. Unless it appears that A was in fact misled by this omission, the error shall not
be regarded as material.
(b) A is charged with cheating B, and the manner in which he cheated B is not set out in the charge or is set out
incorrectly. A defends himself, calls witnesses and gives his own account of the transaction. The Court may infer from this
that the omission to set out the manner of the cheating is not material.
(c) A is charged with cheating B, and the manner in which he cheated B is not set out in the charge. There were many