152
in a proceeding in that Court, such Court may, after such preliminary inquiry, if any, as it thinks necessary,—
(a) record a finding to that effect;
(b) make a complaint thereof in writing;
(c) send it to a Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction;
(d) take sufficient security for the appearance of the accused before such Magistrate, or if the alleged
offence is non-bailable and the Court thinks it necessary so to do, send the accused in custody to such
Magistrate; and
(e) bind over any person to appear and give evidence before such Magistrate.
(2) The power conferred on a Court by sub-section (1) in respect of an offence may, in any case where that
Court has neither made a complaint under sub-section (1) in respect of that offence nor rejected an application for
the making of such complaint, be exercised by the Court to which such former Court is subordinate within the
meaning of sub-section (4) of section 195.
(3) A complaint made under this section shall be signed,—
(a) where the Court making the complaint is a High Court, by such officer of the Court as the Court may
appoint;
1[(b) in any other case, by the presiding officer of the Court or by such officer of the Court as the Court
may authorise in writing in this behalf.]
(4) In this section, “Court” has the same meaning as in section 195.
341. Appeal.—(1) Any person on whose application any Court other than a High Court has refused to make a
complaint under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 340, or against whom such a complaint has been made
by such Court, may appeal to the Court to which such former Court is subordinate within the meaning of sub-section
(4) of section 195, and the superior Court may thereupon, after notice to the parties concerned, direct the withdrawal
of the complaint, or, as the case may be, making of the complaint which such former Court might have made under
section 340, and, if it makes such complaint, the provisions of that section shall apply accordingly.
(2) An order under this section, and subject to any such order, an order under section 340, shall be final, and
shall not be subject to revision.
342. Power to order costs.—Any Court dealing with an application made to it for filing a complaint under
section 340 or an appeal under section 341, shall have power to make such order as to costs as may be just.
343. Procedure of Magistrate taking cognizance.—(1) A Magistrate to whom a complaint is made under
section 340 or section 341 shall, notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter XV, proceed, as far as may be, to
deal with the case as if it were instituted on a police report.
(2) Where it is brought to the notice of such Magistrate, or of any other Magistrate to whom the case may have
been transferred, that an appeal is pending against the decision arrived at in the judicial proceeding out of which the
matter has arisen, he may, if he thinks fit, at any stage, adjourn the hearing of the case until such appeal is decided.
344. Summary procedure for trial for giving false evidence.—(1) If, at the time of delivery of any judgment
or final order disposing of any judicial proceeding, a Court of Session or Magistrate of the first class expresses an
opinion to the effect that any witness appearing in such proceeding had knowingly or wilfully given false evidence
or had fabricated false evidence with the intention that such evidence should be used in such proceeding, it or he
may, if satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the interest of justice that the witness should be tried summarily
for giving or fabricating, as the case may be, false evidence, take cognizance of the offence and may, after giving the
1. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, s. 6, for clause (b) (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).