189
thing in respect of which the conviction was had, and which are in the custody of the Court or remain in the
possession or power of the person convicted.
(2) The Court may, in like manner, on a conviction under section 272, section 273, section 274 or section 275 of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), order the food, drink, drug or medical preparation in respect of which the
conviction was had, to be destroyed.
456. Power to restore possession of immovable property.—(1) When a person is convicted of an offence
attended by criminal force or show of force or by criminal intimidation, and it appears to the Court that, by such
force or show of force or intimidation, any person has been dispossessed of any immovable property, the Court may,
if it thinks fit, order that possession of the same be restored to that person after evicting by force, if necessary, any
other person who may be in possession of the property:
Provided that no such order shall be made by the Court more than one month after the date of the conviction.
(2) Where the Court trying the offence has not made an order under sub-section (1), the Court of appeal,
confirmation or revision may, if it thinks fit, make such order while disposing of the appeal, reference or revision, as
the case may be.
(3) Where an order has been made under sub-section (1), the provisions of section 454 shall apply in relation
thereto as they apply in relation to an order under section 453.
(4) No order made under this section shall prejudice any right or interest to or in such immovable property
which any person may be able to establish in a civil suit.
457. Procedure by police upon seizure of property.—(1) Whenever the seizure of property by any police
officer is reported to a Magistrate under the provisions of this Code, and such property is not produced before a
Criminal Court during an inquiry or trial, the Magistrate may make such order as he thinks fit respecting the disposal
of such property or the delivery of such property to the person entitled to the possession thereof, or if such person
cannot be ascertained, respecting the custody and production of such property.
(2) If the person so entitled is known, the Magistrate may order the property to be delivered to him on such
conditions (if any) as the Magistrate thinks fit and if such person is unknown, the Magistrate may detain it and shall,
in such case, issue a proclamation specifying the articles of which such property consists, and requiring any person
who may have a claim thereto, to appear before him and establish his claim within six months from the date of such
proclamation.
458. Procedure where no claimant appears within six months.—(1) If no person within such period
establishes his claim to such property, and if the person in whose possession such property was found is unable to
show that it was legally acquired by him, the Magistrate may by order direct that such property shall be at the
disposal of the State Government and may be sold by that Government and the proceeds of such sale shall be dealt
with in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2) An appeal shall lie against any such order to the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from convictions by
the Magistrate.
459. Power to sell perishable property.—If the person entitled to the possession of such property is unknown
or absent and the property is subject to speedy and natural decay, or if the Magistrate to whom its seizure is reported
is of opinion that its sale would be for the benefit of the owner, or that the value of such property is 1[less than five
hundred rupees], the Magistrate may at any time direct it to be sold; and the provisions of sections 457 and 458
shall, as nearly as may be practicable, apply to the net proceeds of such sale.
CHAPTER XXXV
IRREGULAR PROCEEDINGS
460. Irregularities which do not vitiate proceedings.—If any Magistrate not empowered by law to do any of
the following things, namely:—
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 41, for “less than ten rupees” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).