171
Court under sub-section (1) of section 401.
(2) Where any proceeding by way of revision is commenced before a Sessions Judge under sub-section (1), the
provisions of sub-sections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of section 401 shall, so far as may be, apply to such proceeding and
references in the said sub-sections to the High Court shall be construed as references to the Sessions Judge.
(3) Where any application for revision is made by or on behalf of any person before the Sessions Judge, the
decision of the Sessions Judge thereon in relation to such person shall be final and no further proceeding by way of
revision at the instance of such person shall be entertained by the High Court or any other Court.
400. Power of Additional Sessions Judge.—An Additional Sessions Judge shall have and may exercise all the
powers of a Sessions Judge under this Chapter in respect of any case which may be transferred to him by or under
any general or special order of the Sessions Judge.
401. High Court's powers of revision.—(1) In the case of any proceeding the record of which has been called
for by itself or which otherwise comes to its knowledge, the High Court may, in its discretion, exercise any of the
powers conferred on a Court of Appeal by sections 386, 389, 390 and 391 or on a Court of Session by section 307,
and, when the Judges composing the Court of Revision are equally divided in opinion, the case shall be disposed of
in the manner provided by section 392.
(2) No order under this section shall be made to the prejudice of the accused or other person unless he has had
an opportunity of being heard either personally or by pleader in his own defence.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorise a High Court to convert a finding of acquittal into one
conviction.
(4) Where under this Code an appeal lies and no appeal is brought, no proceeding by way of revision shall be
entertained at the instance of the party who could have appealed.
(5) Where under this Code an appeal lies but an application for revision has been made to the High Court by
any person and the High Court is satisfied that such application was made under the erroneous belief that no appeal
lies thereto and that it is necessary in the interests of Justice so to do, the High Court may treat the application for
revision as a petition of appeal and deal with the same accordingly.
402. Power of High Court to withdraw or transfer revision cases.—(1) Whenever one or more persons
convicted at the same trial makes or make application to a High Court for revision and any other person convicted at
the same trial makes an application to the Sessions Judge for revision, the High Court shall decide, having regard to the
general convenience of the parties and the importance of the questions involved, which of the two Courts should
finally dispose of the applications for revision and when the High Court decides that all the applications for revision
should be disposed of by itself, the High Court shall direct that the applications for revision pending before the
Sessions Judge be transferred to itself and where the High Court decides that it is not necessary for it to dispose of the
applications for revision, it shall direct that the applications for revision made to it be transferred to the Sessions Judge.
(2) Whenever any application for revision is transferred to the High Court, that Court shall deal with the same
as if it were an application duly made before itself.
(3) Whenever any application for revision is transferred to the Sessions Judge, that Judge shall deal with the
same as if it were an application duly made before himself.
(4) Where an application for revision is transferred by the High Court to the Sessions Judge, no further
application for revision shall lie to the High Court or to any other Court at the instance of the person or persons
whose applications for revision have been disposed of by the Sessions Judge.
403. Option of Court to hear parties.—Save as otherwise expressly provided by this Code, no party has any
right to be heard either personally or by pleader before any Court exercising its powers of revision; but the Court
may, if it thinks fit, when exercising such powers, hear any party either personally or by pleader.