182
(7) If, at any time, after the conclusion of the trial of a person accused of a non-bailable offence and before
judgment is delivered, the Court is of opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not
guilty of any such offence, it shall release the accused, if he is in custody, on the execution by him of a bond without
sureties for his appearance to hear judgment delivered.
1[437A. Bail to require accused to appear before next appellate Court.—(1) Before conclusion of the trial
and before disposal of the appeal, the Court trying the offence or the Appellate Court, as the case may be, shall
require the accused to execute bail bonds with sureties, to appear before the higher Court as and when such Court
issues notice in respect of any appeal or petition filed against the judgment of the respective Court and such bail
bonds shall be in force for six months.
(2) If such accused fails to appear, the bond stand forfeited and the procedure under section 446 shall apply.]
438. Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest.—(1) When any person has reason to believe
that he may be arrested on an accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High
Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section; and that Court may, if it thinks fit, direct that in the
event of such arrest, he shall be released on bail.
(2) When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a direction under sub-section (1), it may include such
conditions in such directions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may think fit, including—
(i) a condition that the person shall make himself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when
required;
(ii) a condition that the person shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to
any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or
to any police officer;
(iii) a condition that the person shall not leave India without the previous permission of the Court;
(iv) such other condition as may be imposed under sub-section (3) of section 437, as if the bail were
granted under that section.
(3) If such person is thereafter arrested without warrant by an officer in charge of a police station on such
accusation, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such officer to give bail,
he shall be released on bail; and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of such offence decides that a warrant should be
issued in the first instance against that person, he shall issue a bailable warrant in confirmity with the direction of the
Court under sub-section (1).
2[(4) Nothing in this section shall apply to any case involving the arrest of any person on accusation of having
committed an offence under sub-section (3) of section 376 or section 376AB or section 376DA or section 376DB of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
STATE AMENDMENTS
West Bengal.—
To sub-section (1) of section 438 of the principal Act, the following proviso shall be added:—
“Provided that where the apprehended accusation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 31 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009)
1. Ins. by Act 22 of 2018, s. 22 (w.e.f. 21-4-2018).