183
life or imprisonment for a term of not less than seven years, no final order shall be made on such application without
giving the State not less than seven days’ notice to present its case.
[Vide West Bengal Act 47 of 1981, s. 3.]
West Bengal.—
For sub-section (1) of section 438, of the principal Act the following sub-sections shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(1) (a) When any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on an accusation of having committed a
non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section that
in the event of such arrest, he shall be released on bail:
Provided that the mere fact that a person has applied to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction
under this section shall not, in the absence of any order by that Court, be a bar to the apprehension of such person, or
the detention of such person in custody, by an officer-in-charge of a police station.
(b) The High Court or the Court of Session, as the case may be, shall dispose of an application for a direction
under this sub-section within thirty days of the date of such application:
Provided that where the apprehended accusation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for
life or imprisonment for a term of not less than seven years, no final order shall be made on such application without
giving the State not less than seven days notice to present its case.
(c) If any person is arrested and detained in custody by an officer-in-charge of a police station before the
disposal of the application of such person for a direction under this sub-section, the release of such person on bail by
a Court having jurisdiction, pending such disposal, shall be subject to the provisions of section 437.
(1A) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
elsewhere in this Act or in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, tribunal or other authority.”.
[Vide West Bengal Act 25 of 1990, s. 3.]
STATE AMENDMENT
Orissa
Amendment of section 438.—In section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), to
sub-section (1), the following proviso shall be added, namely:—
“Provided that where the apprehended accusation relates to an offence punishable with death,
imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than seven years, no final order shall be made
on such application without giving the State notice to present its case.”:
[Vide Orissa Act 11 of 1988, s. 2]
439. Special powers of High Court or Court of Session regarding bail.—(1) A High Court or Court of
Session may direct,—
(a) that any person accused of an offence and in custody be released on bail, and if the offence is of the
nature specified in sub-section (3) of section 437, may impose any condition which it considers necessary for
the purposes mentioned in that sub-section;
(b) that any condition imposed by a Magistrate when releasing any person on bail be set aside or modified:
Provided that the High Court or the Court of Session shall, before granting bail to a person who is accused of an
offence which is triable exclusively by the Court of Session or which, though not so triable, is punishable with