66
case of an order passed by an Executive Magistrate under section 117, or the Chief Judicial Magistrate in any other
case] may remand such person to prison to undergo such unexpired portion.
(8) A person remanded to prison under sub-section (7) shall, subject to the provisions of section 122, be
released at any time on giving security in accordance with the terms of the original order for the unexpired portion
aforesaid to the Court or Magistrate by whom such order was made, or to its or his successor.
(9) The High Court or Court of Session may at any time, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, cancel
any bond for keeping the peace or for good behaviour executed under this Chapter by any order made by it, and
1[District Magistrate, in the case of an order passed by an Executive Magistrate under section 117, or the Chief
Judicial Magistrate in any other case] may make such cancellation where such bond was executed under his order or
under the order of any other Court in his district.
(10) Any surety for the peaceable conduct or good behaviour of another person ordered to execute a bond under
this Chapter may at any time apply to the Court making such order to cancel the bond and on such application being
made, the Court shall issue a summons or warrant, as it thinks fit, requiring the person for whom such surety is bond
appear or to be brought before it.
124. Security for unexpired period of bond.—(1) When a person for whose appearance a summons or warrant
has been issued under the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 121 or under sub-section (10) of section 123, appears
or is brought before the Magistrate or Court, the Magistrate or Court shall cancel the bond executed by such person
and shall order such person to give, for the unexpired portion of the term of such bond, fresh security of the same
description as the original security.
(2) Every such order shall, for the purposes of sections 120 to 123 (both inclusive) be deemed to be an order
made under section 106 or section 117, as the case may be.
CHAPTER IX
ORDER FOR MAINTENANCE OF WIVES, CHILDREN AND PARENTS
125. Order for maintenance of wives, children and parents.—(1) If any person having sufficient means
neglects or refuses to maintain—
(a) his wife, unable to maintain herself, or
(b) his legitimate or illegitimate minor child, whether married or not, unable to maintain itself, or
(c) his legitimate or illegitimate child (not being a married daughter) who has attained majority, where such
child is, by reason of any physical or mental abnormality or injury unable to maintain itself, or
(d) his father or mother, unable to maintain himself or herself,
a Magistrate of the first class may, upon proof of such neglect or refusal, order such person to make a monthly
allowance for the maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, at such monthly rate 1*** as such
Magistrate thinks fit and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct:
Provided that the Magistrate may order the father of a minor female child referred to in clause (b) to make such
allowance, until she attains her majority, if the Magistrate is satisfied that the husband of such minor female child, if
married, is not possessed of sufficient means:
2[Provided further that the Magistrate may, during the pendency of the proceeding regarding monthly allowance
for the maintenance under this sub-section, order such person to make a monthly allowance for the interim
maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, and the expenses of such proceeding which the Magistrate
considers reasonable, and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct:
1. Certain words omitted by Act 50 of 2001, s. 2 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
2. Ins. by s. 2, ibid. (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).