127
277. Language of record of evidence.—In every case where evidence is taken down under section 275 or
276,—
(a) if the witness gives evidence in the language of the Court, it shall be taken down in that language;
(b) if he gives evidence in any other language, it may, if practicable, be taken down in that language, and
if it is not practicable to do so, a true translation of the evidence in the language of the Court shall be
prepared as the examination of the witness proceeds, signed by the Magistrate or presiding Judge, and shall
form part of the record;
(c) where under clause (b) evidence is taken down in a language other than the language of the Court, a true
translation thereof in the language of the Court shall be prepared as soon as practicable, signed by the
Magistrate or presiding Judge, and shall form part of the record:
Provided that when under clause (b) evidence is taken down in English and a translation thereof in the language
of the Court is not required by any of the parties, the Court may dispense with such translation.
278. Procedure in regard to such evidence when completed.—(1) As the evidence of each witness taken
under section 275 or section 276 is completed, it shall be read over to him in the presence of the accused, if in
attendance, or of his pleader, if he appears by pleader, and shall, if necessary, be corrected.
(2) If the witness denies the correctness of any part of the evidence when the same is read over to him, the
Magistrate or presiding Judge may, instead of correcting the evidence, make a memorandum thereon of the
objection made to it by the witness and shall add such remarks as he thinks necessary.
(3) If the record of the evidence is in a language different from that in which it has been given and the witness
does not understand that language, the record shall be interpreted to him in the language in which it was given, or in
a language which he understands.
STATE AMENDMENT
Gujarat
In the principal Act, in section 278, after sub-section (3), the following sub-sections shall be added, namely: —
“(4) Nothing contained in sub-sections (1) to (3) shall apply when the evidence under section 273 is taken
through the medium of Electronic Video Linkage.
(5) The evidence taken through the medium of Electronic Video Linkage in electronic from shall be the
electronic record within the meaning of clause (t) of section 2 if the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of
2000)”
[Vide Gujarat Act 31 of 2017, sec. 3.]
279. Interpretation of evidence to accused or his pleader.—(1) Whenever any evidence is given in a language
not understood by the accused, and he is present in Court in person, it shall be interpreted to him in open Court in a
language understood by him.
(2) If he appears by pleader and the evidence is given in a language other than the language of the Court, and
not understood by the pleader, it shall be interpreted to such pleader in that language.
(3) When documents are put for the purpose of formal proof, it shall be in the discretion of the Court to
interpret as much thereof as appears necessary.
280. Remarks respecting demeanour of witness.—When a presiding Judge or Magistrate has recorded the
evidence of a witness, he shall also record such remarks (if any) as he thinks material respecting the demeanour of
such witness whilst under examination.
281. Record of examination of accused.—(1) Whenever the accused is examined by a Metropolitan
Magistrate, the Magistrate shall make a memorandum of the substance of the examination of the accused in the
language of the Court and such memorandum shall be signed by the Magistrate and shall form part of the