54
punishable under section 124A or section 153A or section 153B or section 292 or section 293 or section
295A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), the State Government may, by notification, stating the
grounds of its opinion, declare every copy of the issue of the newspaper containing such matter,
and every copy of such book or other document to be forfeited to Government, and thereupon any
police officer may seize the same wherever found in India and any Magistrate may by warrant authorise
any police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector to enter upon and search for the same in any
premises where any copy of such issue, or any such book or other document may be or may be reasonably
suspected to be.
(2) In this section and in section 96,—
(a) “newspaper” and “book” have the same meaning as in the Press and Registration of Books
Act, 1867 (25 of 1867);
(b) “document” includes any painting, drawing or photograph, or other visible representation.
(3) No order passed or action taken under this section shall be called in question in any Court
otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of section 96.
96. Application to High Court to set aside declaration of forfeiture.—(1) Any person having any
interest in any newspaper, book or other document, in respect of which a declaration of forfeiture has
been made under section 95, may, within two months from the date of publication in the Official Gazette
of such declaration, apply to the High Court to set aside such declaration on the ground that the issue of
the newspaper, or the book or other document, in respect of which the declaration was made, did not
contain any such matter as is referred to in sub-section (1) of section 95.
(2) Every such application shall, where the High Court consists of three or more Judges, be heard and
determined by a Special Bench of the High Court composed of three Judges and where the High Court
consists of less than three Judges, such Special Bench shall be composed of all the Judges of that High
Court.
(3) On the hearing of any such application with reference to any newspaper, any copy of such
newspaper may be given in evidence in aid of the proof of the nature or tendency of the words, signs or
visible representations contained in such newspaper, in respect of which the declaration of forfeiture was
made.
(4) The High Court shall, if it is not satisfied that the issue of the newspaper, or the book or other
document, in respect of which the application has been made, contained any such matter as is referred to
in sub-section (1) of section 95, set aside the declaration of forfeiture.
(5) Where there is a difference of opinion among the Judges forming the Special Bench, the decision
shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of those Judges.
97. Search for persons wrongfully confined.—If any District Magistrate, Sub-divisional Magistrate
or Magistrate of the first class has reason to believe that any person is confined under such circumstances
that the confinement amounts to an offence, he may issue a search-warrant, and the person to whom such
warrant is directed may search for the person so confined; and such search shall be made in accordance
therewith, and the person, if found, shall be immediately taken before a Magistrate, who shall make such
order as in the circumstances of the case seems proper.
98. Power to compel restoration of abducted females.—Upon complaint made on oath of the
abduction or unlawful detention of a woman, or a female child under the age of eighteen years for any
unlawful purpose, a District Magistrate, Sub-divisional Magistrate or Magistrate of the first class may
make an order for the immediate restoration of such woman to her liberty, or of such female child to her
husband, parent, guardian or other person having the lawful charge of such child, and may compel
compliance with such order, using such force as may be necessary.
C.—General provisions relating to searches
99. Direction, etc., of search-warrants.—The provisions of sections 38, 70, 72, 74, 77, 78 and 79
shall, so far as may be, apply to all search-warrants issued under section 93, section 94, section 95 or