80
police station has reason to suspect the commission of an offence which he is empowered under section 156 to
investigate, he shall forthwith send a report of the same to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of such
offence upon a police report and shall proceed in person, or shall depute one of his subordinate officers not being
below such rank as the State Government may, by general or special order, prescribe in this behalf, to proceed, to
the spot, to investigate the facts and circumstances of the case, and, if necessary, to take measures for the discovery
and arrest of the offender:
Provided that—
(a) when information as to the commission of any such offence is given against any person by name and
the case is not of a serious nature, the officer in charge of a police station need not proceed in person or depute a
subordinate officer to make an investigation on the spot;
(b) if it appears to the officer in charge of a police station that there is no sufficient ground for entering on
an investigation, he shall not investigate the case.
1[Provided further that in relation to an offence of rape, the recording of statement of the victim shall be
conducted at the residence of the victim or in the place of her choice and as far as practicable by a woman police
officer in the presence of her parents or guardian or near relatives or social worker of the locality.]
(2) In each of the cases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of the proviso to sub-section (1), the officer in charge
of the police station shall state in his report his reasons for not fully complying with the requirements of that sub-
section, and, in the case mentioned in clause (b) of the said proviso, the officer shall also forthwith notify to the
informant, if any, in such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government, the fact that he will not investigate
the case or cause it to be investigated.
158. Report how submitted.—(1) Every report sent to a Magistrate under section 157 shall, if the State
Government so directs, be submitted through such superior officer of police as the State Government, by general or
special order, appoints in that behalf.
(2) Such superior officer may give such instructions to the officer in charge of the police station as he thinks fit,
and shall, after recording such instructions on such report, transmit the same without delay to the Magistrate.
159. Power to hold investigation or preliminary inquiry.—Such Magistrate, on receiving such report, may direct
an investigation, or, if he thinks fit, at once proceed, or depute any Magistrate subordinate to him to proceed, to hold a
preliminary inquiry into, or otherwise to dispose of, the case in the manner provided in this Code.
160. Police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses.—(1) Any police officer making an investigation
under this Chapter may, by order in writing, require the attendance before himself of any person being within the limits
of his own or any adjoining station who, from the information given or otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the
facts and circumstances of the case; and such person shall attend as so required:
Provided that no male person 2[under the age of fifteen years or above the age of sixty-five years or a woman or
a mentally or physically disabled person] shall be required to attend at any place other than the place in which such
male person or woman resides.
(2) The State Government may, by rules made in this behalf, provide for the payment by the police officer of the
reasonable expenses of every person, attending under sub-section (1) at any place other than his residence.
161. Examination of witnesses by police.—(1) Any police officer making an investigation under this Chapter,
or any police officer not below such rank as the State Government may, by general or special order, prescribe in this
behalf, acting on the requisition of such officer, may examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with the
facts and circumstances of the case.
(2) Such person shall be bound to answer truly all questions relating to such case put to him by such officer,
other than questions the answers to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a penalty
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s.11 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).
2. Subs. by Act 13 of 2013, s. 14, for “under the age of fifteen years or woman” (w.e.f. 3-2-2013).