60
105J. Certain transfers to be null and void.—Where after the making of an order under sub-
section (1) of section 105E or the issue of a notice under section 105G, any property referred to in the
said order or notice is transferred by any mode whatsoever such transfers shall, for the purposes of
the proceedings under this Chapter, be ignored and if such property is subsequently forfeited to the
Central Government under section 105H, then, the transfer of such property shall be deemed to be
null and void.
105K. Procedure in respect of letter of request.—Every letter of request, summons or warrant,
received by the Central Government from, and every letter of request, summons or warrant, to be
transmitted to a contracting State under this Chapter shall be transmitted to a contracting State or, as
the case may be, sent to the concerned Court in India in such form and in such manner as the Central
Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.
105L. Application of this Chapter.—The Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that the application of this Chapter in relation to a contracting State with
which reciprocal arrangements have been made, shall be subject to such conditions, exceptions or
qualifications as are specified in the said notification.]
CHAPTER VIII
SECURITY FOR KEEPING THE PEACE AND FOR GOOD BEHAVIOUR
106. Security for keeping the peace on conviction.—(1) When a Court of Session or Court of a Magistrate of
the first class convicts a person of any of the offences specified in sub-section (2) or of abetting any such offence
and is of opinion that it is necessary to take security from such person for keeping the peace, the Court may, at the
time of passing sentence on such person, order him to execute a bond, with or without sureties, for keeping the peace
for such period, not exceeding three years, as it thinks fit.
(2) The offences referred to in sub-section (1) are—
(a) any offence punishable under Chapter VIII of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), other than an offence
punishable under section 153A or section 153B or section 154 thereof;
(b) any offence which consists of, or includes, assault or using criminal force or committing mischief;
(c) any offence of criminal intimidation;
(d) any other offence which caused, or was intended or known to be likely to cause, a breach of the peace.
(3) If the conviction is set aside on appeal or otherwise, the bond so executed shall become void.
(4) An order under this section may also be made by an Appellate Court or by a Court when exercising its
powers of revision.
107. Security for keeping the peace in other cases.—(1) When an Executive Magistrate receives information
that any person is likely to commit a breach of the peace or disturb the public tranquillity or to do any wrongful act
that may probably occasion a breach of the peace or disturb the public tranquillity and is of opinion that there is
sufficient ground for proceeding, he may, in the manner hereinafter provided, require such person to show cause
why he should not be ordered to execute a bond 1[with or without sureties,] for keeping the peace for such period,
not exceeding one year, as the Magistrate thinks fit.
(2) Proceedings under this section may be taken before any Executive Magistrate when either the place where
the breach of the peace or disturbance is apprehended is within his local jurisdiction or there is within such
jurisdiction a person who is likely to commit a breach of the peace or disturb the public tranquillity or to do any
wrongful act as aforesaid beyond such jurisdiction.
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 11 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).