58
requiring him to attend or attend and produce a document or other thing in that Court or before any other
investigating agency, issued by a Court, Judge or Magistrate in a contracting State, the same shall be executed as if it
is the warrant received by it from another Court in India for execution within its local limits.
(4) Where a person transferred to a contracting State pursuant to sub-section (3) is a prisoner in India, the Court
in India or the Central Government may impose such conditions as that Court or Government deems fit.
(5) Where the person transferred to India pursuant to sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) is a prisoner in a
contracting State, the Court in India shall ensure that the conditions subject to which the prisoner is transferred to
India are complied with and such prisoner shall be kept in such custody subject to such conditions as the Central
Government may direct in writing.
105C. Assistance in relation to orders of attachment or forfeiture of property.—(1) Where a
Court in India has reasonable grounds to believe that any property obtained by any person is derived or
obtained, directly or indirectly, by such person from the commission of an offence, it may make an order
of attachment or forfeiture of such property, as it may deem fit under the provisions of sections 105D to
105J (both inclusive).
(2) Where the Court has made an order for attachment or forfeiture of any property under sub-section
(1), and such property is suspected to be in a contracting State, the Court may issue a letter of request to a
Court or an authority in the contracting State for execution of such order.
(3) Where a letter of request is received by the Central Government from a Court or an authority in a
contracting State requesting attachment or forfeiture of the property in India, derived or obtained, directly
or indirectly, by any person from the commission of an offence committed in that contracting State, the
Central Government may forward such letter of request to the Court, as it thinks fit, for execution in
accordance with the provisions of sections 105D to 105J (both inclusive) or, as the case may be, any other
law for the time being in force.
105D. Identifying unlawfully acquired property.—(1) The Court shall, under sub-section (1), or on
receipt of a letter of request under sub-section (3) of section 105C, direct any police officer not below the
rank of Sub-Inspector of Police to take all steps necessary for tracing and identifying such property.
(2) The steps referred to in sub-section (1) may include any inquiry, investigation or survey in respect
of any person, place, property, assets, documents, books of account in any bank or public financial
institutions or any other relevant matters.
(3) Any inquiry, investigation or survey referred to in sub-section (2) shall be carried out by an officer
mentioned in sub-section (1) in accordance with such directions issued by the said Court in this behalf.
105E. Seizure or attachment of property.—(1) Where any officer conducting an inquiry or
investigation under section 105D has a reason to believe that any property in relation to which such
inquiry or investigation is being conducted is likely to be concealed transferred or dealt with in any
manner which will result in disposal of such property, he may make an order for seizing such property
and where it is not practicable to seize such property, he may make an order of attachment directing that
such property shall not be transferred or otherwise dealt with, except with the prior permission of the
officer making such order, and a copy of such order shall be served on the person concerned.
(2) Any order made under sub-section (1) shall have no effect unless the said order is confirmed by an
order of the said Court, within a period of thirty days of its being made.
105F. Management of properties seized or forfeited under this Chapter.—(1) The Court may
appoint the District Magistrate of the area where the property is situated, or any other officer that may be
nominated by the District Magistrate, to perform the functions of an Administrator of such property.