156
355. Metropolitan Magistrate's judgment.—Instead of recording a judgment in the manner hereinbefore
provided, a Metropolitan Magistrate shall record the following particulars, namely:—
(a) the serial number of the case;
(b) the date of the commission of the offence;
(c) the name of the complainant (if any);
(d) the name of the accused person, and his parentage and residence;
(e) the offence complained of or proved;
(f) the plea of the accused and his examination (if any);
(g) the final order;
(h) the date of such order;
(i) in all cases in which an appeal lies from the final order either under section 373 or under sub-section (3)
of section 374, a brief statement of the reasons for the decision.
356. Order for notifying address of previously convicted offender.—(1) When any person, having been
convicted by a Court in India of an offence punishable under section 215, section 489A, section 489B, section 489C
or section 489D 1[or section 506 (in so far as it relates to criminal intimidation punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both)] of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or of any
offence punishable under Chapter XII 1[or Chapter XVI] or Chapter XVII of that Code, with imprisonment for a
term of three years, or upwards, is again convicted of any offence punishable under any of those sections or
Chapters with imprisonment for a term of three years or upwards by any Court other than that of a Magistrate of the
second class, such Court may, if it thinks fit, at the time of passing a sentence of imprisonment on such person, also
order that his residence and any change of, or absence from, such residence after release be notified as hereinafter
provided for a term not exceeding five years from the date of the expiration of such sentence.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) with reference to the offences named therein, apply also to criminal
conspiracies to commit such offences and to the abatement of such offences and attempts to commit them.
(3) If such conviction is set aside on appeal or otherwise, such order shall become void.
(4) An order under this section may also be made by an Appellate Court or by the High Court or Court of
Session when exercising its powers of revision.
(5) The State Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the provisions of this section relating to
the notification of residence or change of, or absence from, residence by released convicts.
(6) Such rules may provide for punishment for the breach thereof and any person charged with a breach of any
such rule may be tried by a Magistrate of competent jurisdiction in the district in which the place last notified by him
as his place of residence is situated.
357. Order to pay compensation.—(1) When a Court imposes a sentence of fine or a sentence (including a
sentence of death) of which fine forms a part, the Court may, when passing judgment, order the whole or any part of
the fine recovered to be applied—
(a) in defraying the expenses of properly incurred in the prosecution;
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 29 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).