94
1[(1A) Where,—
(a) any person dies or disappears, or
(b) rape is alleged to have been committed on any woman,
while such person or woman is in the custody of the police or in any other custody authorised by the
Magistrate or the Court, under this Code in addition to the inquiry or investigation held by the police, an
inquiry shall be held by the Judicial Magistrate or the Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, within
whose local jurisdiction the offence has been committed.]
(2) The Magistrate holding such an inquiry shall record the evidence taken by him in connection
therewith in any manner hereinafter prescribed according to the circumstances of the case.
(3) Whenever such Magistrate considers it expedient to make an examination of the dead body of any
person who has been already interred, in order to discover the cause of his death, the Magistrate may
cause the body to be disinterred and examined.
(4) Where an inquiry is to be held under this section, the Magistrate shall, wherever practicable,
inform the relatives of the deceased whose names and addresses are known, and shall allow them to
remain present at the inquiry.
3[(5) The Judicial Magistrate or the Metropolitan Magistrate or Executive Magistrate or police officer
holding an inquiry or investigation, as the case may be, under sub-section (1A) shall, within twenty-four
hours of the death of a person, forward the body with a view to its being examined to the nearest Civil
Surgeon or other qualified medical person appointed in this behalf by the State Government, unless it is
not possible to do so for reasons to be recorded in writing.]
Explanation.—In this section, the expression “relative” means parents, children, brothers, sisters and
spouse.
CHAPTER XIII
JURISDICTION OF THE CRIMINAL COURTS IN INQUIRIES AND TRIALS
177. Ordinary place of inquiry and trial.—Every offence shall ordinarily be inquired into and tried
by a Court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed.
178. Place of inquiry or trial.—(a) When it is uncertain in which of several local areas an offence
was committed, or
(b) where an offence is committed partly in one local area and partly in another, or
(c) where an offence is a continuing one, and continues to be committed in more local areas than
one, or
(d) where it consists of several acts done in different local areas,
it may be inquired into or tried by a Court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas.
179. Offence triable where act is done or consequence ensues.—When an act is an offence by
reason of anything which has been done and of a consequence which has ensued, the offence may be inquired into
or tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction such thing has been done or such consequence has ensued.
180. Place of trial where act is an offence by reason of relation to other offence.—When an act is an offence
by reason of its relation to any other act which is also an offence or which would be an offence if the doer were
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 18 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).