121
the value of the property does not exceed 1[two thousand rupees];
(iv) assisting in the concealment or disposal of stolen property, under section 414 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860), where the value of such property does not exceed 1[two thousand rupees];
(v) offences under sections 454 and 456 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);
(vi) insult with intent to provoke a breach of the peace, under section 504, and 1[criminal intimidation
punishable with imprisionment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both], under
section 506 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);
(vii) abetment of any of the foregoing offences;
(viii) an attempt to commit any of the foregoing offences, when such attempt is an offence;
(ix) any offence constituted by an act in respect of which a complaint may be made under section 20 of the
Cattle-trespass Act, 1871 (1 of 1871).
(2) When, in the course of a summary trial it appears to the Magistrate that the nature of the case is such that it
is undesirable to try it summarily, the Magistrate shall recall any witnesses who may have been examined and
proceed to re-hear the case in the manner provided by this Code.
261. Summary trial by Magistrate of the second class.—The High Court may confer on any Magistrate
invested with the powers of a Magistrate of the second class power to try summarily any offence which is
punishable only with fine or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months with or without fine, and any
abetment of or attempt to commit any such offence.
262. Procedure for summary trials.—(1) In trials under this Chapter, the procedure specified in this Code for
the trial of summons-case shall be followed except as hereinafter mentioned.
(2) No sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding three months shall be passed in the case of any
conviction under this Chapter.
263. Record in summary trials.—In every case tried summarily, the Magistrate shall enter, in such form as the
State Government may direct, the following particulars, namely:—
(a) the serial number of the case;
(b) the date of the commission of the offence;
(c) the date of the report or complaint;
(d) the name of the complainant (if any);
(e) the name, parentage and residence of the accused;
(f) the offence complained of and the offence (if any) proved, and in cases coming under clause (ii), clause
(iii) or clause (iv) of sub-section (1) of section 260, the value of the property in respect of which the offence has
been committed;
(g) the plea of the accused and his examination (if any);
(h) the finding;
(i) the sentence or other final order;
(j) the date on which proceedings terminated.
264. Judgment in cases tried summarily.—In every case tried summarily in which the accused does not plead
guilty, the Magistrate shall record the substance of the evidence and a judgment containing a brief statement of the
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 23, for “criminal intimidation” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).