45
(4) The exact time of commencement and completion of the examination shall also be noted in the report.
(5) The registered medical practitioner shall, without delay, forward the report to the investigating officer, who
shall forward it to the Magistrate referred to in section 173 as part of the documents referred to in clause (a) of
sub-section (5) of that section.]
1[54. Examination of arrested person by medical officer.—(1) When any person is arrested, he shall be
examined by a medical officer in the service of Central or State Government, and in case the medical officer is not
available, by a registered medical practitioner soon after the arrest is made:
Provided that where the arrested person is a female, the examination of the body shall be made only by or under
the supervision of a female medical officer, and in case the female medical officer is not available, by a female
registered medical practitioner.
(2) The medical officer or a registered medical practitioner so examining the arrested person shall prepare the
record of such examination, mentioning therein any injuries or marks of violence upon the person arrested, and the
approximate time when such injuries or marks may have been inflicted.
(3) Where an examination is made under sub-section (1), a copy of the report of such examination shall be
furnished by the medical officer or registered medical practitioner, as the case may be, to the arrested person or the
person nominated by such arrested person.]
2[54A. Identification of person arrested.—Where a person is arrested on a charge of committing an offence
and his identification by any other person or persons is considered necessary for the purpose of investigation of such
offence, the Court, having jurisdiction may, on the request of the officer in charge of a police station, direct the
person so arrested to subject himself to identification by any person or persons in such manner as the Court may
deem fit:]
3[Provided that, if the person identifying the person arrested is mentally or physically disabled, such process of
identification shall take place under the supervision of a Judicial Magistrate who shall take appropriate steps to
ensure that such person identifies the person arrested using methods that person is comfortable with:
Provided further that if the person identifying the person arrested is mentally or physically disabled, the
identification process shall be videographed.]
55. Procedure when police officer deputes subordinate to arrest without warrant.—(1) When any officer in
charge of a police station or any police officer making an investigation under Chapter XII requires any officer
subordinate to him to arrest without a warrant (otherwise than in his presence) any person who may lawfully be
arrested without a warrant, he shall deliver to the officer required to make the arrest an order in writing, specifying
the person to be arrested and the offence or other cause for which the arrest is to be made and the officer so
required shall, before making the arrest, notify to the person to be arrested the substance of the order and, if so
required by such person, shall show him the order.
(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall affect the power of a police officer to arrest a person under section 41.
4[55A. Health and safety of arrested person.—It shall be the duty of the person having the custody
of an accused to take reasonable care of the health and safety of the accused.]
56. Person arrested to be taken before Magistrate or officer in charge of police station.—A
police officer making an arrest without warrant shall, without unnecessary delay and subject to the
provisions herein contained as to bail, take or send the person arrested before a Magistrate having
jurisdiction in the case, or before the officer in charge of a police station.
57. Person arrested not to be detained more than twenty-four hours.—No police officer shall
1. Subs. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 8, for section 54 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).
2. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 11 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
3. Ins. by Act 13 of 2013, s. 12 (w.e.f. 3-2-2013).
4. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 9 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).