188
Court of Session.
CHAPTER XXXIV
DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY
451. Order for custody and disposal of property pending trial in certain cases.—When any property is
produced before any Criminal Court during any inquiry or trial, the Court may make such order as it thinks fit for
the proper custody of such property pending the conclusion of the inquiry or trial, and, if the property is subject to
speedy and natural decay, or if it is otherwise expedient so to do, the Court may, after recording such evidence as it
thinks necessary, order it to be sold or otherwise disposed of.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “property” includes—
(a) property of any kind or document which is produced before the Court or which is in its custody;
(b) any property regarding which an offence appears to have been committed or which appears to have
been used for the commission of any offence.
452. Order for disposal of property at conclusion of trial.—(1) When an inquiry or trial in any Criminal
Court is concluded, the Court may make such order as it thinks fit for the disposal, by destruction, confiscation or
delivery to any person claiming to be entitled to possession thereof or otherwise, of any property or document
produced before it or in its custody, or regarding which any offence appears to have been committed, or which has
been used for the commission of any offence.
(2) An order may be made under sub-section (1) for the delivery of any property to any person claiming to be
entitled to the possession thereof, without any condition or on condition that he executes a bond, with or without
securities, to the satisfaction of the Court, engaging to restore such property to the Court if the order made under
sub-section (1) is modified or set aside on appeal or revision.
(3) A Court of Session may, instead of itself making an order under sub-section (1), direct the property to be
delivered to the Chief Judicial Magistrate, who shall thereupon deal with it in the manner provided in sections 457,
458 and 459.
(4) Except where the property is livestock or is subject to speedy and natural decay, or where a bond has been
executed in pursuance of sub-section (2), an order made under sub-section (1) shall not be carried out for two
months, or when an appeal is presented, until such appeal has been disposed of.
(5) In this section, the term “property” includes, in the case of property regarding which an offence appears to
have been committed, not only such property as has been originally in the possession or under the control of any
party, but also any property into or for which the same may have been converted or exchanged, and anything
acquired by such conversion or exchange, whether immediately or otherwise.
453. Payment to innocent purchaser of money found on accused.—When any person is convicted of any
offence which includes, or amounts to, theft or receiving stolen property, and it is proved that any other person
bought the stolen property from him without knowing or having reason to believe that the same was stolen, and
that any money has on his arrest been taken out of the possession of the convicted person, the Court may, on the
application of such purchaser and on the restitution of the stolen property to the person entitled to the possession
thereof, order that out of such money a sum not exceeding the price paid by such purchaser be delivered to him.
454. Appeal against orders under section 452 or section 453.—(1) Any person aggrieved by an order made
by a Court under section 452 or section 453, may appeal against it to the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from
convictions by the former Court.
(2) On such appeal, the Appellate Court may direct the order to be stayed pending disposal of the appeal, or
may modify, alter or annul the order and make any further orders that may be just.
(3) The powers referred to in sub-section (2) may also be exercised by a Court of appeal, confirmation or
revision while dealing with the case in which the order referred to in sub-section (1) was made.
455. Destruction of libellous and other matter.—(1) On a conviction under section 292, section 293, section
501 or section 502 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), the Court may order the destruction of all the copies of the