43
1[(4) Save in exceptional circumstances, no woman shall be arrested after sunset and before sunrise, and
where such exceptional circumstances exist, the woman police officer shall, by making a written report, obtain
the prior permission of the Judicial Magistrate of the first class within whose local jurisdiction the offence is
committed or the arrest is to be made.]
47. Search of place entered by person sought to be arrested.—(1) If any person acting under warrant of
arrest, or any police officer having authority to arrest, has reason to believe that the person to be arrested has
entered into, or is within, any place, any person residing in, or being in charge of, such place shall, on demand
of such person acting as aforesaid or such police officer, allow him free ingress thereto, and afford all
reasonable facilities for a search therein.
(2) If ingress to such place cannot be obtained under sub-section (1), it shall be lawful in any case for a
person acting under a warrant and in any case in which a warrant may issue, but cannot be obtained without
affording the person to be arrested an opportunity of escape, for a police officer to enter such place and search
therein, and in order to effect an entrance into such place, to break open any outer or inner door or window of
any house or place, whether that of the person to be arrested or of any other person, if after notification of his
authority and purpose, and demand of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain admittance:
Provided that, if any such place is an apartment in the actual occupancy of a female (not being the persons
to be arrested) who, according to custom, does not appear in public, such person or police officer shall, before
entering such apartment, give notice to such female that she is at liberty to withdraw and shall afford her every
reasonable facility for withdrawing, and may then break open the apartment and enter it.
(3) Any police officer or other person authorised to make an arrest may break open any outer or inner
door or window of any house or place in order to liberate himself or any other person who, having lawfully
entered for the purpose of making an arrest, is detained therein.
48. Pursuit of offenders into other jurisdictions.—A police officer may, for the purpose of arresting
without warrant any person whom he is authorised to arrest, pursue such person into any place in India.
49. No unnecessary restraint.—The person arrested shall not be subjected to more restraint than is
necessary to prevent his escape.
50. Person arrested to be informed of grounds of arrest and of right to bail.—(1) Every police officer
or other person arresting any person without warrant shall forthwith communicate to him full particulars of the
offence for which he is arrested or other grounds for such arrest.
(2) Where a police officer arrests without warrant any person other than a person accused of a non-bailable
offence, he shall inform the person arrested that he is entitled to be released on bail and that he may arrange for
sureties on his behalf.
2[50A. Obligation of person making arrest to inform about the arrest, etc., to a nominated person.—(1)
Every police officer or other person making any arrest under this Code shall forthwith give the information
regarding such arrest and place where the arrested person is being held to any of his friends, relatives or such
other persons as may be disclosed or nominated by the arrested person for the purpose of giving such
information.
(2) The police officer shall inform the arrested person of his rights under sub-section (1) as soon as he is
brought to the police station.
(3) An entry of the fact as to who has been informed of the arrest of such person shall be made in a book to be
kept in the police station in such form as may be prescribed in this behalf by the State Government.
(4) It shall be the duty of the Magistrate before whom such arrested person is produced, to satisfy himself that the
requirements of sub-section (2) and sub-section (3) have been complied with in respect of such arrested person.]
51. Search of arrested person.—(1) Whenever a person is arrested by a police officer under a warrant which
does not provide for the taking of bail, or under a warrant which provides for the taking of bail but the person
arrested cannot furnish bail, and
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 6 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 7 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).