112
that of receiving stolen goods. He may be convicted of criminal breach of trust or of receiving stolen goods (as the case may be),
though he was not charged with such offence.
(c) A states on oath before the Magistrate that he saw B hit C with a club. Before the Sessions Court A states on oath that B
never hit C. A may be charged in the alternative and convicted of intentionally giving false evidence, although it cannot be proved
which of these contradictory statements was false.
222. When offence proved included in offence charged.—(1) When a person is charged with an
offence consisting of several particulars, a combination of some only of which constitutes a complete
minor offence, and such combination is proved, but the remaining particulars are not proved, he may be
convicted of the minor offence, though he was not charged with it.
(2) When a person is charged with an offence and facts are proved which reduce it to a minor offence,
he may be convicted of the minor offence, although he is not charged with it.
(3) When a person is charged with an offence, he may be convicted of an attempt to commit such
offence although the attempt is not separately charged.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorise a conviction of any minor offence where the
conditions requisite for the initiation of proceedings in respect of that minor offence have not been
satisfied.
Illustrations
(a) A is charged, under section 407 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), with criminal breach of trust in respect of
property entrusted to him as a carrier. It appears, that he did commit criminal breach of trust under section 406 of that Code
in respect of the property, but that it was not entrusted to him as a carrier. He may be convicted of criminal breach of trust
under the said section 406.
(b) A is charged, under section 325 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), with causing grievous hurt. He proves that
he acted on grave and sudden provocation. He may be convicted under section 335 of that Code.
223. What persons may be charged jointly.—The following persons may be charged and tried
together, namely:—
(a) persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction;
(b) persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment of, or attempt to commit, such
offence;
(c) persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind, within the meaning of section 219
committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months;
(d) persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction;
(e) persons accused of an offence which includes theft, extortion, cheating, or criminal
misappropriation, and persons accused of receiving or retaining, or assisting in the disposal or
concealment of, property possession of which is alleged to have been transferred by any such offence
committed by the first-named persons, or of abetment of or attempting to commit any such last-
named offence;