175
Court in appeal or in revision, the Court of Session shall, on receiving the order of the High Court, cause the
sentence to be carried into effect by issuing a warrant.
415. Postponement of execution of sentence of death in case of appeal to Supreme Court.—(1) Where a
person is sentenced to death by the High Court and an appeal from its judgment lies to the Supreme Court under
sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) of clause (1) of article 134 of the Constitution, the High Court shall order the
execution of the sentence to be postponed until the period allowed for preferring such appeal has expired, or if, an
appeal is preferred within that period, until such appeal is disposed of.
(2) Where a sentence of death is passed or confirmed by the High Court, and the person sentenced makes an
application to the High Court for the grant of a certificate under article 132 or under sub-clause (c) of clause (1) of
article 134 of the Constitution, the High Court shall order the execution of the sentence to be postponed until such
application is disposed of by the High Court, or if a certificate is granted on such application, until the period
allowed for preferring an appeal to the Supreme Court on such certificate has expired.
(3) Where a sentence of death is passed or confirmed by the High Court, and the High Court is satisfied that the
person sentenced intends to present a petition to the Supreme Court for the grant of special leave to appeal under
article 136 of the Constitution, the High Court shall order the execution of the sentence to be postponed for such
period as it considers sufficient to enable him to present such petition.
416. Postponement of capital sentence on pregnant woman.—If a woman sentenced to death is found to be
pregnant, the High Court shall 1[****], commute the sentence to imprisonment for life.
B.—Imprisonment
417. Power to appoint place of imprisonment.—(1) Except when otherwise provided by any law for the time
being in force, the State Government may direct in what place any person liable to be imprisoned or committed to
custody under this Code shall be confined.
(2) If any person liable to be imprisoned or committed to custody under this Code is in confinement in a civil
jail, the Court or Magistrate ordering the imprisonment or committal may direct that the person be removed to a
criminal jail.
(3) When a person is removed to a criminal jail under sub-section (2), he shall, on being released therefrom, be
sent back to the civil jail, unless either—
(a) three years have elapsed since he was removed to the criminal jail, in which case he shall be deemed to
have been released from the civil jail under section 58 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or
section 23 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (5 of 1920), as the case may be; or
(b) the Court which ordered his imprisonment in the civil jail has certified to the officer in charge of the
criminal jail that he is entitled to be released under section 58 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),
or under section 23 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (5 of 1920), as the case may be.
418. Execution of sentence of imprisonment.—(1) Where the accused is sentenced to imprisonment for life or
to imprisonment for a term in cases other than those provided for by section 413, the Court passing the sentence
shall forthwith forward a warrant to the jail or other place in which he is, or is to be, confined, and, unless the
accused is already confined in such jail or other place, shall forward him to such jail or other place, with the warrant:
Provided that where the accused is sentenced to imprisonment till the rising of the Court, it shall not be
necessary to prepare or forward a warrant to a jail, and the accused may be confined in such place as the Court may
direct.
(2) Where the accused is not present in Court when he is sentenced to such imprisonment as is mentioned in
sub-section (1), the Court shall issue a warrant for his arrest for the purpose of forwarding him to the jail or other
1. Certain words omitted by Act 5 of 2009, s. 30 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).