120
(2) Where the Magistrate does not proceed in accordance with the provisions of section 325 or section 360, he
shall, if he finds the accused guilty, pass sentence upon him according to law.
(3) A Magistrate may, under section 252 or section 255, convict the accused of any offence triable under this
Chapter, which from the facts admitted or proved he appears to have committed, whatever may be the nature of the
complaint or summons, if the Magistrate is satisfied that the accused would not be prejudiced thereby.
256. Non-appearance or death of complainant.—(1) If the summons has been issued on complaint, and on
the day appointed for the appearance of the accused, or any day subsequent thereto to which the hearing may be
adjourned, the complainant does not appear, the Magistrate shall, notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained,
acquit the accused, unless for some reason he thinks it proper to adjourn the hearing of the case to some other day:
Provided that where the complainant is represented by a pleader or by the officer conducting the prosecution or
where the Magistrate is of opinion that the personal attendance of the complainant is not necessary, the Magistrate
may, dispense with his attendance and proceed with the case.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, so far as may be, apply also to cases where the non-appearance of
the complainant is due to his death.
257. Withdrawal of complaint.—If a complainant, at any time before a final order is passed in any case under
this Chapter, satisfies the Magistrate that there are sufficient grounds for permitting him to withdraw his complaint
against the accused, or if there be more than one accused, against all or any of them, the Magistrate may permit him
to withdraw the same, and shall thereupon acquit the accused against whom the complaint is so withdrawn.
258. Power to stop proceedings in certain cases.—In any summons-case instituted otherwise than upon
complaint, a Magistrate of the first class or, with the previous sanction of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, any other
Judicial Magistrate, may, for reasons to be recorded by him, stop the proceedings at any stage without pronouncing
any judgment and where such stoppage of proceedings is made after the evidence of the principal witnesses has been
recorded, pronounce a judgment of acquittal, and in any other case, release the accused, and such release shall have
the effect of discharge.
259. Power of Court to convert summons-cases into warrant-cases.—When in the course of the trial of a
summons-case relating to an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term exceeding six months, it appears to
the Magistrate that in the interests of justice, the offence should be tried in accordance with the procedure for the
trial of warrant-cases, such Magistrate may proceed to re-hear the case in the manner provided by this Code for the
trial of warrant-cases and may re-call any witness who may have been examined.
CHAPTER XXI
SUMMARY TRIALS
260. Power to try summarily.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code—
(a) any Chief Judicial Magistrate;
(b) any Metropolitan Magistrate;
(c) any Magistrate of the first class specially empowered in this behalf by the High Court,
may, if he thinks fit, try in a summary way all or any of the following offences:—
(i) offences not punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term exceeding two
years;
(ii) theft, under section 379, section 380 or section 381 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where the
value of the property stolen does not exceed 1[two thousand rupees];
(iii) receiving or retaining stolen property, under section 411 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), where
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 23, for “two hundred rupees” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).