93
or Sub-divisional Magistrate, shall proceed to the place where the body of such deceased person is, and there, in the
presence of two or more respectable inhabitants of the neighbourhood, shall make an investigation, and draw up a
report of the apparent cause of death, describing such wounds, fractures, bruises, and other marks of injury as may
be found on the body, and stating in what manner, or by what weapon or instrument (if any); such marks appear to
have been inflicted.
(2) The report shall be signed by such police officer and other persons, or by so many of them as
concur therein, and shall be forthwith forwarded to the District Magistrate or the Sub-divisional
Magistrate.
(3) 1[When—
(i) the case involves suicide by a woman within seven years of her marriage; or
(ii) the case relates to the death of a woman within seven years of her marriage in any
circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion that some other person committed an offence in relation
to such woman; or
(iii) the case relates to the death of a woman within seven years of her marriage and any relative of
the woman has made a request in this behalf; or
(iv) there is any doubt regarding the cause of death; or
(v) the police officer for any other reason considers it expedient so to do,
he shall], subject to such rules as the State Government may prescribe in this behalf, forward the body,
with a view to its being examined, to the nearest Civil Surgeon, or other qualified medical man appointed
in this behalf by the State Government, if the state of the weather and the distance admit of its being so
forwarded without risk of such putrefaction on the road as would render such examination useless.
(4) The following Magistrates are empowered to hold inquests, namely, any District Magistrate or
Sub-divisional Magistrate and any other Executive Magistrate specially empowered in this behalf by the
State Government or the District Magistrate.
175. Power to summon persons.—(1) A police officer proceeding under section 174 may, by order
in writing, summon two or more persons as aforesaid for the purpose of the said investigation, and any
other person who appears to be acquainted with the facts of the case and every person so summoned shall
be bound to attend and to answer truly all questions other than questions the answers to which would have
a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture.
(2) If the facts do not disclose a cognizable offence to which section 170 applies, such persons shall
not be required by the police officer to attend a Magistrate’s Court.
176. Inquiry by Magistrate into cause of death.—(1) 2[3*** when the case is of the nature referred
to in clause (i) or clause (ii) of sub-section (3) of section 174], the nearest Magistrate empowered to hold
inquests shall, and in any other case mentioned in sub-section (1) of section 174, any Magistrate so
empowered may hold an inquiry into the cause of death either instead of, or in addition to, the
investigation held by the police officer; and if he does so, he shall have all the powers in conducting it
which he would have in holding an inquiry into an offence.
1. Subs. by Act 46 of 1983, s. 3, for certain words (w.e.f. 25-12-1983).
2. Subs. by, s. 4, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 25-12-1983).
3. Certain words omitted by Act 25 of 2005, s. 18 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).