34
STATE AMENDMENT
Orissa
Amendment of section 25.—In section 25 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)
(hereinafter referred to as the said Code), to sub-section (2), the following proviso shall be inserted,
namely:—
“Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be construed, to prohibit the State Government from
exercising its control over Assistant Public Prosecutors through police officers.”
[Vide Orissa Act 6 of 1995, s. 2]
1[25A. Directorate of Prosecution.—(1) The State Government may establish a Directorate of
Prosecution consisting of a Director of Prosecution and as many Deputy Directors of Prosecution as it
thinks fit.
(2) A person shall be eligible to be appointed as a Director of Prosecution or a Deputy Director of
Prosecution, only if he has been in practice as an advocate for not less than ten years and such
appointment shall be made with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of the High Court.
(3) The Head of the Directorate of Prosecution shall be the Director of Prosecution, who shall
function under the administrative control of the Head of the Home Department in the State.
(4) Every Deputy Director of Prosecution shall be subordinate to the Director of Prosecution.
(5) Every Public Prosecutor, Additional Public Prosecutor and Special Public Prosecutor appointed
by the State Government under sub-section (1), or as the case may be, sub-section (8), of section 24 to
conduct cases in the High Court shall be subordinate to the Director of Prosecution.
(6) Every Public Prosecutor, Additional Public Prosecutor and Special Public Prosecutor appointed
by the State Government under sub-section (3), or as the case may be, sub-section (8), of section 24 to
conduct cases in District Courts and every Assistant Public Prosecutor appointed under sub-section (1) of
section 25 shall be subordinate to the Deputy Director of Prosecution.
(7) The powers and functions of the Director of Prosecution and the Deputy Directors of Prosecution
and the areas for which each of the Deputy Directors of Prosecution have been appointed shall be such as
the State Government may, by notification, specify.
(8) The provisions of this section shall not apply to the Advocate General for the State while
performing the functions of a Public Prosecutor.]
STATE AMENDMENT
Karnataka
In section 25A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act No. 2 of 1974), —
(a) for sub-section (2), the following shall be substituted, namely:—“(2) The post of Director of
prosecution and Government litigations, or a Deputy Director of Prosecution and other cadres shall be filled in
accordance with the Cadre and Recruitment Rules framed under the Karnataka State Civil Services Act, 1978
(Karnataka Act 14 of 1990).”
(b) for sub-section (5), the following shall be substituted, namely:—“(5) Every Public Prosecutor,
Additional Public Prosecutor appointed by the State Government from the cadre of Prosecutors recruited
under the recruitment rules framed by the Government under the Karnataka State Civil Services Act, 1978
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 4 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).