46
detain in custody a person arrested without warrant for a longer period than under all the circumstances of
the case is reasonable, and such period shall not, in the absence of a special order of a Magistrate under
section 167, exceed twenty-four hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the place of
arrest to the Magistrate’s Court.
58. Police to report apprehensions.—Officers in charge of police stations shall report to the District
Magistrate, or, if he so directs, to the Sub-divisional Magistrate, the cases of all persons arrested without
warrant, within the limits of their respective stations, whether such persons have been admitted to bail or
otherwise.
59. Discharge of person apprehended.—No person who has been arrested by a police officer shall
be discharged except on his own bond, or on bail, or under the special order of a Magistrate.
60. Power, on escape, to pursue and retake.—(1) If a person in lawful custody escapes or is
rescued, the person from whose custody he escaped or was rescued may immediately pursue and arrest
him in any place in India.
(2) The provisions of section 47 shall apply to arrests under sub-section (1) although the person
making any such arrest is not acting under a warrant and is not a police officer having authority to arrest.
1[60A. Arrest to be made strictly according to the Code.—No arrest shall be made except in
accordance with the provisions of this Code or any other law for the time being in force providing for
arrest.]
CHAPTER VI
PROCESSES TO COMPEL APPEARANCE
A.—Summons
61. Form of summons.—Every summons issued by a Court under this Code shall be in writing, in
duplicate, signed by the presiding officer of such Court or by such other officer as the High Court may,
from time to time, by rule direct, and shall bear the seal of the Court.
62. Summons how served.—(1) Every summons shall be served by a police officer, or subject to
such rules as the State Government may make in this behalf, by an officer of the Court issuing it or other
public servant.
(2) The summons shall, if practicable, be served personally on the person summoned, by delivering or
tendering to him one of the duplicates of the summons.
(3) Every person on whom a summons is so served shall, if so required by the serving officer, sign a
receipt therefor on the back of the other duplicate.
63. Service of summons on corporate bodies and societies.—Service of a summons on a
corporation may be effected by serving it on the secretary, local manager or other principal officer of the
corporation, or by letter sent by registered post, addressed to the chief officer of the corporation in India,
in which case the service shall be deemed to have been effected when the letter would arrive in ordinary course
of post.
Explanation.—In this section, “corporation” means an incorporated company or other body corporate and
includes a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860).
64. Service when persons summoned cannot be found.—Where the person summoned cannot, by the exercise
of due diligence, be found, the summons may be served by leaving one of the duplicates for him with some adult
male member of his family residing with him, and the person with whom the summons is so left shall, if so required
by the serving officer, sign a receipt therefor on the back of the other duplicate.
Explanation.—A servant is not a member of the family within the meaning of this section.
65. Procedure when service cannot be effected as before provided.—If service cannot by the exercise of due
diligence be effected as provided in section 62, section 63 or section 64, the serving officer shall affix one of the
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s.10 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).