77
satisfied from the report of a police officer or upon other information, that a dispute likely to cause a
breach of the peace exists regarding any alleged right of user of any land or water within his local
jurisdiction, whether such right be claimed as an easement or otherwise, he shall make an order in
writing, stating the grounds of his being so satisfied and requiring the parties concerned in such
dispute to attend his Court in person or by pleader on a specified date and time and to put in written
statements of their respective claims.
Explanation.—The expression “land or water” has the meaning given to it in sub-section (2) of
section 145.
(2) The Magistrate shall then persue the statements so put in, hear the parties, receive all such
evidence as may be produced by them respectively, consider the effect of such evidence, take such further
evidence, if any, as he thinks necessary and, if possible, decide whether such right exists; and the
provisions of section 145 shall, so far as may be, apply in the case of such inquiry.
(3) If it appears to such Magistrate that such rights exist, he may make an order prohibiting any
interference with the exercise of such right, including, in a proper case, an order for the removal of any
obstruction in the exercise of any such right:
Provided that no such order shall be made where the right is exercisable at all times of the year,
unless such right has been exercised within three months next before the receipt under sub-section (1) of
the report of a police officer or other information leading to the institution of the inquiry, or where the
right is exercisable only at particular seasons or on particular occasions, unless the right has been
exercised during the last of such seasons or on the last of such occasions before such receipt.
(4) When in any proceedings commenced under sub-section (1) of section 145 the Magistrate finds
that the dispute is as regards an alleged right of user of land or water, he may, after recording his reasons,
continue with the proceedings as if they had been commenced under sub-section (1),
and when in any proceedings commenced under sub-section (1) the magistrate finds that the dispute
should be dealt with under section 145, he may, after recording his reasons, continue with the proceedings
as if they had been commenced under sub-section (1) of section 145.
148. Local inquiry.—(1) Whenever a local inquiry is necessary for the purposes of section 145, section 146 or
section 147, a District Magistrate or Sub-divisional Magistrate may depute any Magistrate subordinate to him to
make the inquiry, and may furnish him with such written instructions as may seem necessary for his guidance, and
may declare by whom the whole or any part of the necessary expenses of the inquiry shall be paid.
(2) The report of the person so deputed may be read as evidence in the case.
(3) When any costs have been incurred by any party to a proceeding under section 145, section 146 or section
147, the Magistrate passing a decision may direct by whom such costs shall be paid, whether by such party or by any
other party to the proceeding, and whether in whole or in part or proportion and such costs may include any
expenses incurred in respect of witnesses and of pleaders’ fees, which the Court may consider reasonable.
CHAPTER XI
PREVENTIVE ACTION OF THE POLICE
149. Police to prevent cognizable offences.—Every police officer may interpose for the purpose of preventing,
and shall, to the best of his ability, prevent, the commission of any cognizable offence.
150. Information of design to commit cognizable offences.—Every police officer receiving information of a
design to commit any cognizable offence shall communicate such information to the police officer to whom he is
subordinate, and to any other officer whose duty it is to prevent or take cognizance of the commission of any such
offence.
151. Arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences.—(1) A police officer knowing of a design to
commit any cognizable offence may arrest, without orders from a Magistrate and without a warrant, the person so
designing, if it appears to such officer that the commission of the offence cannot be otherwise prevented.
(2) No person arrested under sub-section (1) shall be detained in custody for a period exceeding twenty-four
hours from the time of his arrest unless his further detention is required or authorised under any other provisions of
this Code or of any other law for the time being in force.