109
transactions between A and B, and A had no means of knowing to which of them the charge referred, and offered no
defence. The Court may infer from such facts that the omission to set out the manner of the cheating was, in the case, a
material error.
(d) A is charged with the murder of Khoda Baksh on the 21st January, 1882. In fact, the murdered person's name was
Haidar Baksh, and the date of the murder was the 20th January, 1882. A was never charged with any murder but one, and
had heard the inquiry before the Magistrate, which referred exclusively to the case of Haidar Baksh. The Court may infer
from these facts that A was not misled, and that the error in the charge was immaterial.
(e) A was charged with murdering Haidar Baksh on the 20th January, 1882, and Khoda Baksh (who tried to arrest him
for that murder) on the 21st January, 1882. When charged for the murder of Haidar Baksh, he was tried for the murder of
Khoda Baksh. The witnesses present in his defence were witnesses in the case of Haidar Baksh. The Court may infer from
this that A was misled, and that the error was material.
216. Court may alter charge.—(1) Any Court may alter or add to any charge at any time before
judgment is pronounced.
(2) Every such alteration or addition shall be read and explained to the accused.
(3) If the alteration or addition to a charge is such that proceeding immediately with the trial is not
likely, in the opinion of the Court, to prejudice the accused in his defence or the prosecutor in the conduct
of the case, the Court may, in its discretion, after such alteration or addition has been made, proceed with
the trial as if the altered or added charge had been the original charge.
(4) If the alteration or addition is such that proceeding immediately with the trial is likely, in the
opinion of the Court, to prejudice the accused or the prosecutor as aforesaid, the Court may either direct a
new trial or adjourn the trial for such period as may be necessary.
(5) If the offence stated in the altered or added charge is one for the prosecution of which previous
sanction is necessary, the case shall not be proceeded with until such sanction is obtained, unless sanction
has been already obtained for a prosecution on the same facts as those on which the altered or added
charge is founded.
217. Recall of witnesses when charge altered.—Whenever a charge is altered or added to by the
Court after the commencement of the trial, the prosecutor and the accused shall be allowed—
(a) to recall or re-summon, and examine with reference to such alteration or addition, any witness
who may have been examined, unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing, considers that
the prosecutor or the accused, as the case may be, desires to recall or re-examine such witness for the
purpose of vexation or delay or for defeating the ends of justice;
(b) also to call any further witness whom the Court may think to be material.
B.—Joinder of charges
218. Separate charges for distinct offences.—(1) For every distinct offence of which any person is
accused there shall be a separate charge, and every such charge shall be tried separately:
Provided that where the accused person, by an application in writing, so desires and the Magistrate is
of opinion that such person is not likely to be prejudiced thereby, the Magistrate may try together all or
any number of the charges framed against such person.
(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall affect the operation of the provisions of sections 219, 220, 221
and 223.