131
(2) The Court may, if it thinks fit, summon and examine any such expert as to the subject-matter of his report.
(3) Where any such expert is summoned by a Court, and he is unable to attend personally, he may, unless the
Court has expressly directed him to appear personally, depute any responsible officer working with him to attend the
Court, if such officer is conversant with the facts of the case and can satisfactorily depose in Court on his behalf.
(4) This section applies to the following Government scientific experts, namely:—
(a) any Chemical Examiner or Assistant Chemical Examiner to Government;
1[(b) the Chief Controller of Explosives;]
(c) the Director of the Finger Print Bureau;
(d) the Director, Haffkeine Institute, Bombay;
(e) the Director 2[, Deputy Director or Assistant Director] of a Central Forensic Science Laboratory or a
State Forensic Science Laboratory;
(f) the Serologist to the Government;
3[(g) any other Government scientific expert specified, by notification, by the Central Government for this
purpose.]
294. No formal proof of certain documents.—(1) Where any document is filed before any Court by the
prosecution or the accused, the particulars of every such document shall be included in a list and the prosecution or
the accused, as the case may be, or the pleader for the prosecution or the accused, if any, shall be called upon to
admit or deny the genuineness of each such document.
(2) The list of documents shall be in such form as be prescribed by the State Government.
(3) Where the genuineness of any document is not disputed, such document may be read in evidence in inquiry,
trial or other proceeding under this Code without proof of the signature of the person to whom it purports to be
signed:
Provided that the Court may, in its discretion, require such signature to be proved.
295. Affidavit in proof of conduct of public servants.—When any application is made to any Court in the
course of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code, and allegations are made therein respecting any
public servant, the applicant may give evidence of the facts alleged in the application by affidavit, and the Court
may, if it thinks fit, order that evidence relating to such facts be so given.
296. Evidence of formal character on affidavit.—(1) The evidence of any person whose evidence is of a
formal character may be given by affidavit and may, subject to all just exceptions, be read in evidence in any
inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code.
(2) The Court may, if it thinks fit, and shall, on the application of the prosecution or the accused, summon and
examine any such person as to the facts contained in his affidavit.
297. Authorities before whom affidavits may be sworn.—(1) Affidavits to be used before any Court under
this Code may be sworn or affirmed before—
4[(a) any Judge or Judicial or Executive Magistrate, or]
(b) any Commissioner of Oaths appointed by a High Court or Court of Session, or
(c) any notary appointed under the Notaries Act, 1952 (53 of 1952).
(2) Affidavits shall be confined to, and shall state separately, such facts as the deponent is able to prove from his
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 26, for cl. (b) (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 21 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
3. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 26 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
4. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 22, for cl. (a) (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).