153
offender a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why he should not be punished for such offence, try such
offender summarily and sentence him to imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or to fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.
(2) In every such case the Court shall follow, as nearly as may be practicable, the procedure prescribed for
summary trials.
(3) Nothing in this section shall affect the power of the Court to make a complaint under section 340 for the
offence, where it does not choose to proceed under this section.
(4) Where, after any action is initiated under sub-section (1), it is made to appear to the Court of Session or
Magistrate of the first class that an appeal or an application for revision has been preferred or filed against the
judgment or order in which the opinion referred to in that sub-section has been expressed, it or he shall stay further
proceedings of the trial until the disposal of the appeal or the application for revision, as the case may be, and
thereupon the further proceedings of the trial shall abide by the results of the appeal or application for revision.
345. Procedure in certain cases of contempt.—(1) When any such offence as is described in section 175,
section 178, section 179, section 180 or section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) is committed in the view
or presence of any Civil, Criminal, or Revenue Court, the Court may cause the offender to be detained in custody,
and may, at any time before the rising of the Court or the same day, take cognizance of the offence and, after giving
the offender a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why he should not be punished under this section, sentence
the offender to fine not exceeding two hundred rupees, and, in default of payment of fine, to simple imprisonment
for a term which may extend to one month, unless such fine be sooner paid.
(2) In every such case the Court shall record the fact constituting the offence, with the statement (if any) made
by the offender, as well as the finding and sentence.
(3) If the offence is under section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), the record shall show the nature
and stage of the judicial proceeding in which the Court interrupted or insulted was sitting, and the nature of the
interruption or insult.
346. Procedure where Court considers that case should not be dealt with under section 345.—(1) If the
Court in any case considers that a person accused of any of the offences referred to in section 345 and committed in its
view or presence should be imprisoned otherwise than in default of payment of fine, or that a fine exceeding two
hundred rupees should be imposed upon him, or such Court is for any other reason of opinion that the case should not
be disposed of under section 345, such Court, after recording the facts constituting the offence and the statement of the
accused as hereinbefore provided, may forward the case to a Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the same, and
may require security to be given for the appearance of such person before such Magistrate, or if sufficient security is
not given, shall forward such person in custody to such Magistrate.
(2) The Magistrate to whom any case is forwarded under this section shall proceed to deal with, as far as may
be, as if it were instituted on a police report.
347. When Registrar or Sub-Registrar to be deemed a Civil Court.—When the State Government so directs,
any Registrar or any Sub-Registrar appointed under the 1*** Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), shall be deemed to
be a Civil Court within the meaning of sections 345 and 346.
348. Discharge of offender on submission of apology.—When any Court has under section 345 adjudged an
offender to punishment, or has under section 346 forwarded him to a Magistrate for trial, for refusing or omitting to
do anything which he was lawfully required to do or for any intentional insult or interruption, the Court may, in its
discretion, discharge the offender or remit the punishment on his submission to the order or requisition of such
Court, or on apology being made to its satisfaction.
349. Imprisonment or committal of person refusing to answer or produce document.—If any witness or
person called to produce a document or thing before a Criminal Court refuses to answer such questions as are put to
him or to produce any document or thing in his possession or power which the Court requires him to produce, and
1. The word “Indian” omitted by Act 56 of 1974, s. 3 and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 20-12-1974).