111
charged with, and convicted of, the possession of each seal under section 473 of the Indian Penal Code.
(e) With intent to cause injury to B, A institutes a criminal proceeding against him, knowing that there is no just or
lawful ground for such proceeding, and also falsely accuses B of having committed an offence, knowing that there is no just
or lawful ground for such charge. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, two offences under section 211 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(f) A, with intent to cause injury to B, falsely accuses him of having committed an offence, knowing that there is no just
or lawful ground for such charge. On the trial, A gives false evidence against B, intending thereby to cause B to be
convicted of a capital offence. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections 211 and 194 of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(g) A, with six others, commits the offences of rioting, grievous hurt and assaulting a public servant endeavouring in
the discharge of his duty as such to suppress the riot. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under
sections 147, 325 and 152 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(h) A threatens B, C and D at the same time with injury to their persons with intent to cause alarm to them. A may be
separately charged with, and convicted of, each of the three offences under section 506 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860).
The separate charges referred to in illustrations (a) to (h), respectively, may be tried at the same time.
Illustrations to sub-section (3)
(i) A wrongfully strikes B with a cane. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections
352 and 323 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(j) Several stolen sacks of corn are made over to A and B, who knew they are stolen property, for the purpose of
concealing them. A and B thereupon voluntarily assist each other to conceal the sacks at the bottom of a grain-pit. A and B
may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections 411 and 414 of the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860).
(k) A exposes her child with the knowledge that she is thereby likely to cause its death. The child dies in consequence of
such exposure. A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences under sections 317 and 304 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860).
(l) A dishonestly uses a forged document as genuine evidence, in order to convict B, a public servant, of an offence
under section 167 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). A may be separately charged with, and convicted of, offences
under sections 471 (read with section 466) and 196 of that Code.
Illustration to sub-section (4)
(m) A commits robbery on B, and in doing so voluntarily causes hurt to him. A may be separately charged with, and
convicted of, offences under sections 323, 392 and 394 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
221. Where it is doubtful what offence has been committed.—(1) If a single act or series of acts is
of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute,
the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences, and any number of such
charges may be tried at once; or he may be charged in the alternative with having committed some one of
the said offences.
(2) If in such a case the accused is charged with one offence, and it appears in evidence that he
committed a different offence for which he might have been charged under the provisions of sub-section
(1), he may be convicted of the offence which he is shown to have committed, although he was not
charged with it.
Illustrations
(a) A is accused of an act which may amount to theft, or receiving stolen property, or criminal breach of trust or cheating. He
may be charged with theft, receiving stolen property, criminal breach of trust and cheating, or he may be charged with having
committed theft, or receiving stolen property, or criminal breach of trust or cheating.
(b) In the case mentioned, A is only charged with theft. It appears that he committed the offence of criminal breach of trust, or