169
(i) where such person, being on bail, is sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or
(ii) where the offence of which such person has been convicted is a bailable one, and he is on bail,
order that the convicted person be released on bail, unless there are special reasons for refusing bail, for such period as
will afford sufficient time to present the appeal and obtain the orders of the Appellate Court under sub-section (1); and
the sentence of imprisonment shall, so long as he is so released on bail, be deemed to be suspended.
(4) When the appellant is ultimately sentenced to imprisonment for a term or to imprisonment for life, the time
during which he is so released shall be excluded in computing the term for which he is so sentenced.
390. Arrest of accused in appeal from acquittal.—When an appeal is presented under section 378, the High
Court may issue a warrant directing that the accused be arrested and brought before it or any Subordinate Court, and
the Court before which he is brought may commit him to prison pending the disposal of the appeal or admit him to
bail.
391. Appellate Court may take further evidence or direct it to be taken.—(1) In dealing with any appeal
under this Chapter, the Appellate Court, if it thinks additional evidence to be necessary, shall record its reasons and
may either take such evidence itself, or direct it to be taken by a Magistrate or, when the Appellate Court is a High
Court, by a Court of Session or a Magistrate.
(2) When the additional evidence is taken by the Court of Session or the Magistrate, it or he shall certify such
evidence to the Appellate Court, and such Court shall thereupon proceed to dispose of the appeal.
(3) The accused or his pleader shall have the right to be present when the additional evidence is taken.
(4) The taking of evidence under this section shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter XXIII, as if it were an
inquiry.
392. Procedure where Judges of Court of Appeal are equally divided.—When an appeal under this Chapter
is heard by a High Court before a Bench of Judges and they are divided in opinion, the appeal, with their opinions,
shall be laid before another Judge of that Court, and that Judge, after such hearing as he thinks fit, shall deliver his
opinion, and the judgment or order shall follow that opinion:
Provided that if one of the Judges constituting the Bench, or, where the appeal is laid before another Judge
under this section, that Judge, so requires, the appeal shall be re-heard and decided by a larger Bench of Judges.
393. Finality of judgments and orders on appeal.—Judgments and orders passed by an Appellate Court upon
an appeal shall be final, except in the cases provided for in section 377, section 378, sub-section (4) of section 384
or Chapter XXX:
Provided that notwithstanding the final disposal of an appeal against conviction in any case, the Appellate Court
may hear and dispose of, on the merits,—
(a) an appeal against acquittal under section 378, arising out of the same case, or
(b) an appeal for the enhancement of sentence under section 377, arising out of the same case.
394. Abatement of appeals.—(1) Every other appeal under section 377 or section 378 shall finally abate on the
death of the accused.
(2) Every other appeal under this Chapter (except an appeal from a sentence of fine) shall finally abate on the
death of the appellant:
Provided that where the appeal is against a conviction and sentence of death or of imprisonment, and the
appellant dies during the pendency of the appeal, any of his near relatives may, within thirty days of the death of the
appellant, apply to the Appellate Court for leave to continue the appeal; and if leave is granted, the appeal shall not
abate.
Explanation.—In this section, “near relative” means a parent, spouse, lineal descendant, brother or sister.