128
record.
(2) Whenever the accused is examined by any Magistrate other than a Metropolitan Magistrate, or by a
Court of Session, the whole of such examination, including every question put to him and every answer
given by him, shall be recorded in full by the presiding Judge or Magistrate himself or where he is unable
to do so owing to a physical or other incapacity, under his direction and superintendence by an officer of the
Court appointed by him in this behalf.
(3) The record shall, if practicable, be in the language in which the accused is examined or, if that is not
practicable, in the language of the Court.
(4) The record shall be shown or read to the accused, or, if he does not understand the language in which it
is written, shall be interpreted to him in a language which he understands, and he shall be at liberty to explain
or add to his answers.
(5) It shall thereafter be signed by the accused and by the Magistrate or presiding Judge, who shall certify
under his own hand that the examination was taken in his presence and hearing and that the record contains a
full and true account of the statement made by the accused.
(6) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to the examination of an accused person in the course
of a summary trial.
STATE AMENDMENT
Gujarat
In the principal Act, in section 281, in sub-section (6), after the words “the examination of an accused
person”, the words “either through the medium of Electronic Video Linkage or” shall be inserted.
[Vide Gujarat Act 31 of 2017, sec. 4.]
282. Interpreter to be bound to interpret truthfully.—When the services of an interpreter are required
by any Criminal Court for the interpretation of any evidence or statement, he shall be bound to state the true
interpretation of such evidence or statement.
283. Record in High Court.—Every High Court may, by general rule, prescribe the manner in which the
evidence of witnesses and the examination of the accused shall be taken down in cases coming before it, and
such evidence and examination shall be taken down in accordance with such rule.
B.—Commissions for the examination of witnesses
284. When attendance of witness may be dispensed with and commission issued.—(1) Whenever, in
the course of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code, it appears to a Court or Magistrate that
the examination of a witness is necessary for the ends of justice, and that the attendance of such witness
cannot be procured without an amount of delay, expense or inconvenience which, under the circumstances of
the case, would be unreasonable, the Court or Magistrate may dispense with such attendance and may issue a
commission for the examination of the witness in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter:
Provided that where the examination of the President or the Vice-President of India or the Governor of a
State or the Administrator of a Union territory as a witness is necessary for the ends of Justice, a commission
shall be issued for the examination of such a witness.
(2) The Court may, when issuing a commission for the examination of a witness for the prosecution,
direct that such amount as the Court considers reasonable to meet the expenses of the accused, including the
pleader's fees, be paid by the prosecution.