165
Session from an order of acquittal passed by a Magistrate in respect of a cognizable and non-bailable offence;
(b) the State Government may, in any case, direct the Public Prosecutor to present an appeal to the High
Court from an original or appellate order of acquittal passed by any Court other than a High Court [not being an
order under clause (a)] or an order of acquittal passed by the Court of Session in revision.]
(2) If such an order of acquittal is passed in any case in which the offence has been investigated by the Delhi
Special Police Establishment constituted under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946), or by
any other agency empowered to make investigation into an offence under any Central Act other than this Code, 1[the
Central Government may, subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), also direct the Public Prosecutor to present an
appeal—
(a) to the Court of Session, from an order of acquittal passed by a Magistrate in respect of a cognizable and
non-bailable offence;
(b) to the High Court from an original or appellate order of an acquittal passed by any Court other than a
High Court [not being an order under clause (a)] or an order of acquittal passed by the Court of Session in
revision].
(3) 2[No appeal to the High Court] under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be entertained except with the
leave of the High Court.
(4) If such an order of acquittal is passed in any case instituted upon complaint and the High Court, on an
application made to it by the complainant in this behalf, grants special leave to appeal from the order of acquittal,
the complainant may present such an appeal to the High Court.
(5) No application under sub-section (4) for the grant of special leave to appeal from an order of acquittal shall
be entertained by the High Court after the expiry of six months, where the complainant is a public servant, and sixty
days in every other case, computed from the date of that order of acquittal.
(6) If, in any case, the application under sub-section (4) for the grant of special leave to appeal from an order of
acquittal is refused, no appeal from that order of acquittal shall lie under sub-section (1) or under sub-section (2).
379. Appeal against conviction by High Court in certain cases.—Where the High Court has, on appeal,
reversed an order of acquittal of an accused person and convicted him and sentenced him to death or to
imprisonment for life or to imprisonment for a term of ten years or more, he may appeal to the Supreme Court.
380. Special right of appeal in certain cases.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, when
more persons than one are convicted in one trial, and an appealable judgment or order has been passed in respect of
any of such persons, all or any of the persons convicted at such trial shall have a right of appeal.
381. Appeal to Court of Session how heard.—(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), an appeal to the
Court of Session or Sessions Judge shall be heard by the Sessions Judge or by an Additional Sessions Judge:
Provided that an appeal against a conviction on a trial held by a Magistrate of the second class may be heard
and disposed of by an Assistant Sessions Judge or a Chief Judicial Magistrate.
(2) An Additional Sessions Judge, Assistant Sessions Judge or a Chief Judicial Magistrate shall hear only such
appeals as the Sessions Judge of the division may, by general or special order, make over to him or as the High
Court may, by special order, direct him to hear.
382. Petition of appeal.—Every appeal shall be made in the form of a petition in writing presented by the
appellant or his pleader, and every such petition shall (unless the Court to which it is presented otherwise directs) be
accompanied by a copy of the judgment or order appealed against.
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 32, for certain words (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Subs. by s. 32, ibid., for “No appeal” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).