116
(8) When an order for payment of compensation to an accused person is made, the compensation shall not be
paid to him before the period allowed for the presentation of the appeal has elapsed, or, if an appeal is presented,
before the appeal has been decided.
CHAPTER XIX
TRIAL OF WARRANT-CASES BY MAGISTRATES
A.—Cases instituted on a police report
238. Compliance with section 207.—When, in any warrant-case instituted on a police report, the accused
appears or is brought before a Magistrate at the commencement of the trial, the Magistrate shall satisfy himself that
he has complied with the provisions of section 207.
239. When accused shall be discharged.—If, upon considering the police report and the documents sent with
it under section 173 and making such examination, if any, of the accused as the Magistrate thinks necessary and
after giving the prosecution and the accused an opportunity of being heard, the Magistrate considers the charge
against the accused to be groundless, he shall discharge the accused, and record his reasons for so doing.
240. Framing of charge.—(1) If, upon such consideration, examination, if any, and hearing, the Magistrate is
of opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed an offence triable under this Chapter,
which such Magistrate is competent to try and which, in his opinion, could be adequately punished by him, he shall
frame in writing a charge against the accused.
(2) The charge shall then be read and explained to the accused, and he shall be asked whether he pleads guilty
of the offence charged or claims to be tried.
STATE AMENDMENT
Chhattisgarh
In sub-section (2) of section 240 of the Principal Act, after the word “to the accused” the following
shall be added:—
“present either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage in the presence of his
pleader in the Court.”
[Vide Chhattisgarh Act 13 of 2006, s. 5.]
241. Conviction on plea of guilty.—If the accused pleads guilty, the Magistrate shall record the plea and may,
in his discretion, convict him thereon.
242. Evidence for prosecution.—(1) If the accused refuses to plead or does not plead, or claims to be tried or
the Magistrate does not convict the accused under section 241, the Magistrate shall fix a date for the examination of
witnesses:
1[Provided that the Magistrate shall supply in advance to the accused, the statement of witnesses recorded
during investigation by the police.]
(2) The Magistrate may, on the application of the prosecution, issue a summons to any of its witnesses
directing him to attend or to produce any document or other thing.
(3) On the date so fixed, the Magistrate shall proceed to take all such evidence as may be produced in support of
the prosecution:
Provided that the Magistrate may permit the cross-examination of any witness to be deferred until any other
witness or witnesses have been examined or recall any witness for further cross-examination.
243. Evidence for defence.—(1) The accused shall then be called upon to enter upon his defence and produce
his evidence; and if the accused puts in any written statement, the Magistrate shall file it with the record.
(2) If the accused, after he has entered upon his defence, applies to the Magistrate to issue any process for
compelling the attendance of any witness for the purpose of examination or cross-examination, or the production of
any document or other thing, the Magistrate shall issue such process unless he considers that such application should
be refused on the ground that it is made for the purpose of vexation or delay or for defeating the ends of justice and
such ground shall be recorded by him in writing:
Provided that, when the accused has cross-examined or had the opportunity of cross-examining any witness
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s.19 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).