173
another Criminal Court in the same sessions division, unless an application for such transfer has been made to the
Sessions Judge and rejected by him.
(3) Every application for an order under sub-section (1) shall be made by motion, which shall, except when the
applicant is the Advocate-General of the State, be supported by affidavit or affirmation.
(4) When such application is made by an accused person, the High Court may direct him to execute
a bond, with or without sureties, for the payment of any compensation which the High Court may award under
sub-section (7).
(5) Every accused person making such application shall give to the Public Prosecutor notice in writing of the
application, together with a copy of the grounds on which it is made; and no order shall be made on the merits of the
applications unless at least twenty-four hours have elapsed between the giving of such notice and the hearing of the
application.
(6) Where the application is for the transfer of a case or appeal from any Subordinate Court, the High Court
may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in the interest of Justice, order that, pending the disposal of the
application the proceedings in the Subordinate Court shall be stayed, on such terms as the High Court may think fit
to impose:
Provided that such stay shall not affect the Subordinate Court’s power of remand under section 309.
(7) Where an application for an order under sub-section (1) is dismissed, the High Court may, if it is of opinion
that the application was frivolous or vexatious, order the applicant to pay by way of compensation to any person
who has opposed the application such sum not exceeding one thousand rupees as it may consider proper in the
circumstances of the case.
(8) When the High Court orders under sub-section (1) that a case be transferred from any Court for trial before
itself, it shall observe in such trial the same procedure which that Court would have observed if the case had not
been so transferred.
(9) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect any order of Government under section 197.
408. Power of Sessions Judge to transfer cases and appeals.—(1) Whenever it is made to appear to a
Sessions Judge that an order under this sub-section is expedient for the ends of justice, he may order that any
particular case be transferred from one Criminal Court to another Criminal Court in his sessions division.
(2) The Sessions Judge may act either on the report of the lower Court, or on the application of a party
interested, or on his own initiative.
(3) The provisions of sub-sections (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (9) of section 407 shall apply in relation to an
application to the Sessions Judge for an order under sub-section (1) as they apply in relation to an application to the
High Court for an order under sub-section (1) of section 407, except that sub-section (7) of that section shall so
apply as if for the words “one thousand rupees” occurring therein, the words “two hundred and fifty rupees” were
substituted.
STATE AMENDMENT
Kerala
Amendment of section 408. —In section 408 of the principal Act, for the words “any other Magistrate”, the
words “other Magistrate of the first class”, and for the words “any Magistrate” the words “a Magistrate of the first
class”, shall be substituted.
[Vide Kerala Act 5 of 1957, s. 3.]