192
(b) one year, if the offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year;
(c) three years, if the offence is punishable with imprisonment for a term exceeding one year but not
exceeding three years.
1[(3) For the purposes of this section, the period of limitation, in relation to offences which may be tried
together, shall be determined with reference to the offence which is punishable with the more severe punishment or,
as the case may be, the most severe punishment.]
469. Commencement of the period of limitation.—(1) The period of limitation, in relation to an offender,
shall commence,—
(a) on the date of the offence; or
(b) where the commission of the offence was not known to the person aggrieved by the offence or to any
police officer, the first day on which such offence comes to the knowledge of such person or to any police
officer, whichever is earlier; or
(c) where it is not known by whom the offence was committed, the first day on which the identity of the
offender is known to the person aggrieved by the offence or to the police officer making investigation into the
offence, whichever is earlier.
(2) In computing the said period, the day from which such period is to be computed shall be excluded.
470. Exclusion of time in certain cases.—(1) In computing the period of limitation, the time during
which any person has been prosecuting with due diligence another prosecution, whether in a Court of first
instance or in a Court of appeal or revision, against the offender, shall be excluded:
Provided that no such exclusion shall be made unless the prosecution relates to the same facts and is
prosecuted in good faith in a Court which from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable
to entertain it.
(2) Where the institution of the prosecution in respect of an offence has been stayed by an injunction or
order, then, in computing the period of limitation, the period of the continuance of the injunction or order, the
day on which it was issued or made, and the day on which it was withdrawn, shall be excluded.
(3) Where notice of prosecution for an offence has been given, or where, under any law for the time being
in force, the previous consent or sanction of the Government or any other authority is required for the
institution of any prosecution for an offence, then, in computing the period of limitation, the period of such
notice or, as the case may be, the time required for obtaining such consent or sanction shall be excluded.
Explanation.—In computing the time required for obtaining the consent or sanction of the Government or
any other authority, the date on which the application was made for obtaining the consent or sanction and the
date of receipt of the order of the Government or other authority shall both be excluded.
(4) In computing the period of limitation, the time during which the offender—
(a) has been absent from India or from any territory outside India which is under the administration of
the Central Government, or
(b) has avoided arrest by absconding or concealing himself,
shall be excluded.
471. Exclusion of date on which Court is closed.—Where the period of limitation expires on a day when
the Court is closed, the Court may take cognizance on the day on which the Court reopens.
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 33 (w.e.f. 18.12.1978).