144
1
2
3
Defamation against the President or the 500
The person defamed.
Vice-President or the Governor of a
State or the Administrator of a Union
territory or a Minister in respect of his
public functions when instituted upon
a complaint made by the Public
Prosecutor.
Uttering words or sounds or making
509
The woman whom it was intended to
gestures or exhibiting any object
insult or whose privacy was intruded
intending to insult the modesty of a
upon.]
woman or intruding upon the privacy
of a woman.
1[(3) When an offence is compoundable under this section, the abetment of such offence or an attempt to
commit such offence (when such attempt is itself an offence) or where the accused is liable under section 34 or 149
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) may be compounded in like manner.]
(4) (a) When the person who would otherwise be competent to compound an offence under this section is under
the age of eighteen years or is an idiot or a lunatic, any person competent to contract on his behalf may, with the
permission of the Court, compound such offence.
(b) When the person who would otherwise be competent to compound an offence under this section is dead, the
legal representative, as defined in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) of such person may, with the
consent of the Court, compound such offence.
(5) When the accused has been committed for trial or when he has been convicted and an appeal is pending, no
composition for the offence shall be allowed without the leave of the Court to which he is committed, or, as the case
may be, before which the appeal is to be heard.
(6) A High Court or Court of Session acting in the exercise of its powers of revision under section 401 may
allow any person to compound any offence which such person is competent to compound under this section.
(7) No offence shall be compounded if the accused is, by reason of a previous conviction, liable either to
enhanced punishment or to a punishment of a different kind for such offence.
(8) The composition of an offence under this section shall have the effect of an acquittal of the accused with
whom the offence has been compounded.
(9) No offence shall be compounded except as provided by this section.
STATE AMENDMENT
Madhya Pradesh
Amendment of Section 320.—In the table below sub-section (2) of Section 320 of the principal Act,-
1. Subs. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 23, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).