48
in its discretion direct by endorsement on the warrant that, if such person executes a bond with sufficient sureties
for his attendance before the Court at a specified time and thereafter until otherwise directed by the Court, the
officer to whom the warrant is directed shall take such security and shall release such person from custody.
(2) The endorsement shall state—
(a) the number of sureties;
(b) the amount in which they and the person for whose arrest the warrant is issued, are to be respectively
bound;
(c) the time at which he is to attend before the Court.
(3) Whenever security is taken under this section, the officer to whom the warrant is directed shall forward the
bond to the Court.
72. Warrants to whom directed.—(1) A warrant of arrest shall ordinarily be directed to one or more police
officers; but the Court issuing such a warrant may, if its immediate execution is necessary and no police officer is
immediately available, direct it to any other person or persons, and such person or persons shall execute the same.
(2) When a warrant is directed to more officers or persons than one, it may be executed by all, or by any one or
more of them.
73. Warrant may be directed to any person.—(1) The Chief Judicial Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first
class may direct a warrant to any person within his local jurisdiction for the arrest of any escaped convict,
proclaimed offender or of any person who is accused of a non-bailable offence and is evading arrest.
(2) Such person shall acknowledge in writing the receipt of the warrant, and shall execute it if the person for
whose arrest it was issued, is in, or enters on, any land or other property under his charge.
(3) When the person against whom such warrant is issued is arrested, he shall be made over with the warrant to
the nearest police officer, who shall cause him to be taken before a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the case, unless
security is taken under section 71.
74. Warrant directed to police officer.—A warrant directed to any police officer may also be executed by any
other police officer whose name is endorsed upon the warrant by the officer to whom it is directed or endorsed.
75. Notification of substance of warrant.—The police officer or other person executing a warrant of arrest
shall notify the substance thereof to the person to be arrested, and, if so required, shall show him the warrant.
76. Person arrested to be brought before Court without delay.—The police officer or other person executing
a warrant of arrest shall (subject to the provisions of section 71 as to security) without unnecessary delay bring the
person arrested before the Court before which he is required by law to produce such person:
Provided that such delay shall not, in any case, exceed twenty-four hours exclusive of the time necessary for the
journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate’s Court.
77. Where warrant may be executed.—A warrant of arrest may be executed at any place in India.
78. Warrant forwarded for execution outside jurisdiction.—(1) When a warrant is to be executed outside the
local jurisdiction of the Court issuing it, such Court may, instead of directing the warrant to a police officer within
its jurisdiction, forward it by post or otherwise to any Executive Magistrate or District Superintendent of Police or
Commissioner of Police within the local limits of whose jurisdiction it is to be executed; and the Executive
Magistrate or District Superintendent or Commissioner shall endorse his name thereon, and if practicable, cause it to
be executed in the manner hereinbefore provided.
(2) The Court issuing a warrant under sub-section (1) shall forward, along with the warrant, the substance of
the information against the person to be arrested together with such documents, if any, as may be sufficient to enable
the Court acting under section 81 to decide whether bail should or should not be granted to the person.
79. Warrant directed to police officer for execution outside jurisdiction.—(1) When a warrant directed to a
police officer is to be executed beyond the local jurisdiction of the Court issuing the same, he shall ordinarily take it