25
CHAPTER II
CONSTITUTION OF CRIMINAL COURTS AND OFFICES
6. Classes of Criminal Courts.—Besides the High Courts and the Courts constituted under any law,
other than this Code, there shall be, in every State, the following classes of Criminal Courts, namely:—
(i) Courts of Session;
(ii) Judicial Magistrates of the first class and, in any metropolitan area, Metropolitan Magistrates;
(iii) Judicial Magistrates of the second class; and
(iv) Executive Magistrates.
7. Territorial divisions.—(1) Every State shall be a sessions division or shall consist of sessions
divisions; and every sessions divisions shall, for the purposes of this Code, be a district or consist of
districts:
Provided that every metropolitan area shall, for the said purposes, be a separate sessions division and
district.
(2) The State Government may, after consultation with the High Court, alter the limits or the number
of such divisions and districts.
(3) The State Government may, after consultation with the High Court, divide any district into sub-
divisions and may alter the limits or the number of such sub-divisions.
(4) The sessions divisions, districts and sub-divisions existing in a State at the commencement of this
Code, shall be deemed to have been formed under this section.
8. Metropolitan areas.—(1) The State Government may, by notification, declare that, as from such
date as may be specified in the notification, any area in the State comprising a city or town whose
population exceeds one million shall be a metropolitan area for the purposes of this Code.
(2) As from the commencement of this Code, each of the Presidency-towns of Bombay, Calcutta and
Madras and the city of Ahmedabad shall be deemed to be declared under sub-section (1) to be a
metropolitan area.
(3) The State Government may, by notification, extend, reduce or alter the limits of a metropolitan
area but the reduction or alteration shall not be so made as to reduce the population of such area to less
than one million.
(4) Where, after an area has been declared, or deemed to have been declared to be, a metropolitan
area, the population of such area falls below one million, such area shall, on and from such date as the
State Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf, cease to be a metropolitan area; but
notwithstanding such cesser, any inquiry, trial or appeal pending immediately before such cesser before
any Court or Magistrate in such area shall continue to be dealt with under this Code, as if such cesser had
not taken place.
(5) Where the State Government reduces or alters, under sub-section (3), the limits of any
metropolitan area, such reduction or alteration shall not affect any inquiry, trial or appeal pending
immediately before such reduction or alteration before any Court or Magistrate, and every such inquiry,
trial or appeal shall continue to be dealt with under this Code as if such reduction or alteration had not
taken place.
Explanation.—In this section, the expression “population” means the population as
ascertained at the last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been published.
STATE AMENDMENT
Delhi
In its application to the National Capital Territory of Delhi, in section 8,—
(a) in sub-section (1), for the words “a city or town”, substitute “a city or town or part thereof”;