246
FORM No. 32
CHARGES
(See sections 211,212 and 213)
I. CHARGES WITH ONE-HEAD
(1) (a) I, (name and office of Magistrate, etc.),
hereby charge you (name of accused person) as follows:—
(b) On section 121—That you, on or about the day of , at , waged
war against the Government of India and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 121 of
the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(c) And I hereby direct that you be tried by this Court on the said charge.
(Signature and seal of the Magistrate)
[To be substituted for (b)]:—
(2) On section 124—That you, on or about the day of , at , with the
intention of inducing the President of India [or, as the case may be, the Governor of (name of State)]
to refrain from exercising a lawful power as such President (or, as the case may be, the Government)
assaulted President (or, as the case may be, the Governor), and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 124 of the India Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(3) On section 161—That you, being a public servant in the Department, directly accepted
from (state the name) for another party (state the name) gratification other than
legal remuneration, as a motive for forbearing to do an official act, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(4) On section 166—That you, on or about the day of , at , did (or omitted
to do, as the case may be) , such conduct being contrary to the provisions of Act ,
section , and known by you to be prejudicial to , and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 166 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(5) On section 193—That you, on or about the day of , at , in the course of
the trial of before , stated in evidence that “ “ which statement
you either knew or believed to be false, or did not believe to be true, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 193 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(6) On section 304—That you, on or about the day of , at , committed
culpable homicide not amounting to murder, causing the death of , and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance
of this Court.
(7) On section 306—That you, on or about the day of , at , abetted the
commission of suicide by A.B., a person in a state of intoxication, and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(8) On section 325—That you, on or about the day of , at , voluntarily
caused grievous hurt to , and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 325 of
the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.
(9) On section 392—That you, on or about the day of , at ,
robbed (state the name), and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 392 of the
Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of this Court.