180
CHAPTER XXXIII
PROVISIONS AS TO BAIL AND BONDS
436. In what cases bail to be taken.—(1) When any person other than a person accused of a non-bailable
offence is arrested or detained without warrant by an officer in charge of a police station, or appears or is brought
before a Court, and is prepared at any time while in the custody of such officer or at any stage of the proceeding
before such Court to give bail, such person shall be released on bail:
Provided that such officer or Court, if he or it thinks fit, 1[may, and shall, if such person is indigent and is
unable to furnish surety, instead of taking bail] from such person, discharge him on his executing a bond without
sureties for his appearance as hereinafter provided.
2[Explanation.—Where a person is unable to give bail within a week of the date of his arrest, it shall be a
sufficient ground for the officer or the Court to presume that he is an indigent person for the purposes of this
proviso:]
Provided further that nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the provisions of sub-section (3) of
section 116 3[or section 446A].
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where a person has failed to comply with the
conditions of the bail-bond as regards the time and place of attendance, the Court may refuse to release him on bail,
when on a subsequent occasion in the same case he appears before the Court or is brought in custody and any such
refusal shall be without prejudice to the powers of the Court to call upon any person bound by such bond to pay the
penalty thereof under section 446.
4[436A. Maximum period for which an undertrial prisoner can be detained.—Where a person has, during
the period of investigation, inquiry or trial under this Code of an offence under any law (not being an offence for
which the punishment of death has been specified as one of the punishments under that law) undergone detention for
a period extending up to one-half of the maximum period of imprisonment specified for that offence under that law,
he shall be released by the Court on his personal bond with or without sureties:
Provided that the Court may, after hearing the Public Prosecutor and for reasons to be recorded by it in writing,
order the continued detention of such person for a period longer than one-half of the said period or release him on
bail instead of the personal bond with or without sureties:
Provided further that no such person shall in any case be detained during the period of investigation, inquiry or
trial for more than the maximum period of imprisonment provided for the said offence under that law.
Explanation.—In computing the period of detention under this section for granting bail, the period of detention
passed due to delay in proceeding caused by the accused shall be excluded.]
437. When bail may be taken in case of non-bailable offence.—5[(1) When any person accused of, or
suspected of, the commission of any non-bailable offence is arrested or detained without warrant by an officer in
charge of a police station or appears or is brought before a Court other than the High Court or Court of session, he
may be released on bail, but—
(i) such person shall not be so released if there appear reasonable grounds for believing that he has been
guilty of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life;
(ii) such person shall not be so released if such offence is a cognizable offence and he had been previously
convicted of an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for seven years or more,
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 35, for certain words (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 35, (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
3. Ins. by Act 63 of 1980, s. 4 (w.e.f. 23-9-1980).
4. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 36 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
5. Subs. by Act 63 of 1980, s. 5, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 23-9-1980).