27
STATE AMENDMENT
West Bengal.—
To sub-section (3) of section 9 of the principal Act, the following provisos shall be added:—
Provided that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code, an Additional Sessions
Judge in a sub-division, other than the sub-division, by whatever name called, wherein the headquarters of
the Sessions Judges are situated, exercising jurisdiction in a Court of Session, shall have all the powers of
the Sessions Judge under this Code, in respect of the cases and proceedings in the Criminal Courts in that
sub-division, for the purposes of sub-section (7) of session 116, sections 193 and 194, clause (a) of
section 209 and sections 409, 439 and 449:
Provided further that the above powers shall not be in derogation of the powers otherwise exercisable
by an Additional Sessions Judge or a Sessions Judge under this Code.”.
[Vide West Bengal Act, 24 of 1988, s. 3.]
Orissa
Amendment of section 9.-In Section 9 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)
(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), to sub-section (3), the following provisions shall be added,
namely:—
“Provided that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code, an Additional
Sessions Judge in a district or subdivision, other than the district or subdivision, by whatever name called,
wherein the headquarters of the Sessions Judge are situated, exercising jurisdiction in a Court of Sessions
shall have all the powers of the Sessions Judge under this Code, in respect of the cases and the
proceedings in the Criminal Courts in that district or subdivision for the purposes of sub-section (7) of
section 116, sections 193 and 194, clause (a) of section 209 and sections 409 and 449:
Provided further that the above powers shall be not be in derogation of the powers otherwise
exercisable by an Additional Sessions Judge or a Sessions Judge under this Code.”
[Vide Orissa Act 6 of 2004, s. 2]
10. Subordination of Assistant Sessions Judges.—(1) All Assistant Sessions Judges shall be
subordinate to the Sessions Judge in whose Court they exercise jurisdiction.
(2) The Sessions Judge may, from time to time, make rules consistent with this Code, as to the
distribution of business among such Assistant Sessions Judges.
(3) The Sessions Judge may also make provision for the disposal of any urgent application, in the
event of his absence or inability to act, by an Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge, or, if there be no
Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge, by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, and every such Judge or
Magistrate shall be deemed to have jurisdiction to deal with any such application.
11. Courts of Judicial Magistrates.—(1) In every district (not being a metropolitan area) there shall
be established as many Courts of Judicial Magistrates of the first class and of the second class, and at such
places, as the State Government may, after consultation with the High Court, by notification, specify:
1[Provided that the State Government may, after consultation with the High Court, establish, for any
local area, one or more Special Courts of Judicial Magistrates of the first class or of the second class to try
any particular case or particular class of cases, and where any such Special Court is established, no other
Court of Magistrate in the local area shall have jurisdiction to try any case or class of cases for the trial of
which such Special Court of Judicial Magistrate has been established.]
(2) The presiding officers of such Courts shall be appointed by the High Court.
(3) The High Court may, whenever it appears to it to be expedient or necessary, confer the powers of
1. Added by Act 45 of 1978, s. 3 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).