191
confession or other statement of an accused person recorded, or purporting to be recorded under section 164 or
section 281, is tendered, or has been received, in evidence finds that any of the provisions of either of such sections
have not been complied with by the Magistrate recording the statement, it may, notwithstanding anything contained
in section 91 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), take evidence in regard to such non-compliance, and
may, if satisfied that such non-compliance has not injured the accused in his defence on the merits and that he duly
made the statement recorded, admit such statement.
(2) The provisions of this section apply to Courts of appeal, reference and revision.
464. Effect of omission to frame, or absence of, or error in, charge.—(1) No finding, sentence or order by a
Court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the
ground of any error, omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charges, unless, in the
opinion of the Court of appeal, confirmation or revision, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
(2) If the Court of appeal, confirmation or revision, is of opinion that a failure of justice has in fact been
occasioned, it may,—
(a) in the case of an omission to frame a charge, order that a charge be framed, and that the trial be
recommended from the point immediately after the framing of the charge;
(b) in the case of an error, omission or irregularity in the charge, direct a new trial to be had upon a charge
framed in whatever manner it thinks fit:
Provided that if the Court is of opinion that the facts of the case are such that no valid charge could be preferred
against the accused in respect of the facts proved, it shall quash the conviction.
465. Finding or sentence when reversible by reason of error, omission or irregularity.—(1) Subject to the
provisions hereinbefore contained, no finding, sentence or order passed by a Court of competent jurisdiction shall be
reversed or altered by a Court of appeal, confirmation of revision on account of any error, omission or irregularity in
the complaint, summons, warrant, proclamation, order, judgment or other proceedings before or during trial or
in any inquiry or other proceedings under this Code, or any error, or irregularity in any sanction for the
prosecution, unless in the opinion of that Court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
(2) In determining whether any error, omission or irregularity in any proceeding under this Code, or any error,
or irregularity in any sanction for the prosecution has occasioned a failure of justice, the Court shall have regard to
the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at an earlier stage in the proceedings.
466. Defect or error not to make attachment unlawful.—No attachment made under this Code shall be
deemed unlawful, nor shall any person making the same be deemed a trespasser, on account of any defect or want of
form in the summons, conviction, writ of attachment or other proceedings relating thereto.
CHAPTER XXXVI1
LIMITATION FOR TAKING COGNIZANCE OF CERTAIN OFFENCES
467. Definitions.—For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, “period of
limitation” means the period specified in section 468 for taking cognizance of an offence.
468. Bar to taking cognizance after lapse of the period of limitation.—(1) Except as otherwise provided
elsewhere in this Code, no Court shall take cognizance of an offence of the category specified in sub-section (2),
after the expiry of the period of limitation.
(2) The period of limitation shall be—
(a) six months, if the offence is punishable with fine only;
1. Provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to certain economic offences, see the Economic Offences (Inapplicability of
Limitation) Act, 1974 (12 of 1974), s. 2 and Sch.