124
265G. Finality of the judgment.—The judgment delivered by the Court under section 265G shall be final and
no appeal (except the special leave petition under article 136 and writ petition under articles 226 and 227 of the
Constitution) shall lie in any Court against such judgment.
265H. Power of the Court in plea bargaining.—A Court shall have, for the purposes of discharging its
functions under this Chapter, all the powers vested in respect of bail, trial of offences and other matters relating to
the disposal of a case in such Court under this Code.
265-I. Period of detention undergone by the accused to be set off against the sentence of imprisonment.—
The provisions of section 428 shall apply, for setting off the period of detention undergone by the accused against
the sentence of imprisonment imposed under this Chapter, in the same manner as they apply in respect of the
imprisonment under other provisions of this Code.
265J. Savings.—The provisions of this Chapter shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent
therewith contained in any other provisions of this Code and nothing in such other provisions shall be construed to
constrain the meaning of any provision of this Chapter.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression “Public Prosecutor” has the meaning assigned to
it under clause (u) of section 2 and includes an Assistant Public Prosecutor appointed under section 25.
265K. Statements of accused not to be used.—Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time
being in force, the statements or facts stated by an accused in an application for plea bargaining filed under
section 265B shall not be used for any other purpose except for the purpose of this Chapter.
265L. Non-application of the Chapter.—Nothing in this Chapter shall apply to any juvenile or child as
defined in clause (k) of section 2 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 (56 of 2000).]
CHAPTER XXII
ATTENDANCE OF PERSONS CONFINED OR DETAINED IN PRISONS
266. Definitions.—In this Chapter,—
(a) “detained” includes detained under any law providing for preventive detention;
(b) “prison” includes,—
(i) any place which has been declared by the State Government, by general or special order, to be a
subsidiary jail;
(ii) any reformatory, Borstal institution or institution of a like nature.
267. Power to require attendance of prisoners.—(1) Whenever, in the course of an inquiry, trial or
proceeding under this Code, it appears to a Criminal Court,—
(a) that a person confined or detained in a prison should be brought before the Court for answering to a
charge of an offence, or for the purpose of any proceedings against him, or
(b) that it is necessary for the ends of justice to examine such person as a witness,
the Court may make an order requiring the officer in charge of the prison to produce such person before the Court
answering to the charge or for the purpose of such proceeding or, as the case may be, for giving evidence.
(2) Where an order under sub-section (1) is made by a Magistrate of the second class, it shall not be forwarded
to, or acted upon by, the officer in charge of the prison unless it is countersigned by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, to
whom such Magistrate is subordinate.
(3) Every order submitted for countersigning under sub-section (2) shall be accompanied by a statement of the
facts which, in the opinion of the Magistrate, render the order necessary, and the Chief Judicial Magistrate to whom