247
(10) On section 395—That you, on or about the day of , at ,
committed dacoity, an offence punishable under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the
cognizance of this Court.
II. CHARGES WITH TWO OR MORE HEADS
(1) (a) I, (name and office of Magistrate, etc.), hereby
charge you (name of accused person) as follows:—
(b) On section 241—First—That you, on or about the day of , at ,
knowing a coin to be counterfeit, delivered the same to another person, by name, A.B., as genuine, and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 241 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the
cognizance of the Court of Session.
Secondly—That you, on or about the day of , at , knowing a
coin to be counterfeit attempted to induce another person, by name, A.B., to receive it as genuine, and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 241 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the
cognizance of the Court of Session.
(c) And I hereby direct that you be tried by the said Court on the said charge.
(Signature and seal of the Magistrate)
[To be substituted for (b)]:—
(2) On sections 302 and 304—First—That you, on or about the day of , at ,
committed murder by causing the death of , and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance of the Court of
Session.
Secondly—That you, on or about the day of , at , by causing
the death of , committed culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance
of the Court of Session.
(3) On sections 379 and 382—First—That you, on or about the day of , at ,
committed theft, and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 379 of the Indian Penal
Code, and within the cognizance of the Court of Session.
Secondly—That you, on or about the day of , at , committed theft,
having made preparation for causing death to a person in order to the committing of such theft, and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 382 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the
cognizance of the Court of Session.
Thirdly—That you, on or about the day of , at , committed theft, having
made preparation for causing restraint to a person in order to the effecting of your escape after the
committing of such theft, and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 382 of the Indian
Penal Code, and within the cognizance of the Court of Session.
Fourthly—That you, on or about the day of , at , committed
theft, having made preparation for causing fear of hurt to a person in order to the restraining of property
taken by such theft and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 382 of the Indian Penal
Code, and within the cognizance of the Court of Session.
(4) Alternative charge on section 193—That you, on or about the day of , at ,
in the course of the inquiry into , before , stated in evidence that “ “, and
that you, on or about the day of , at , in the course of the trial
of , before , stated in the evidence that “ “, one of
which statements you either knew or believed to be false, or did not believe to be true, and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 193 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the cognizance
of the Court of Session.
(In cases tried by Magistrates substitute “within my cognizance” for “within the cognizance of the Court
of Session”.)