130
evidence in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code, although the deponent is not called as a witness.
(2) The Court may, if it thinks fit, and shall, on the application of the prosecution or the accused, summon and
examine any such deponent as to the subject-matter of his deposition.
STATE AMENDMENT
Gujarat
In the principal Act, in section 291, in sub-section (1), after the words “in the presence of accused”, the words
“or, as the case may be through the medium of Electronic Video Linkage” shall be inserted.
[Vide Gujarat Act 31 of 2017, sec. 5.]
1[291A. Identification report of Magistrate.—(1) Any document purporting to be a report of identification
under the hand of an Executive Magistrate in respect of a person or property may be used as evidence in any inquiry,
trial or other proceeding under this Code, although such Magistrate is not called as a witness:
Provided that where such report contains a statement of any suspect or witness to which the provisions of
section 21, section 32, section 33, section 155 or section 157, as the case may be, of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
(1 of 1872), apply, such statement shall not be used under this sub-section except in accordance with the provisions
of those sections.
(2) The Court may, if it thinks fit, and shall, on the application of the prosecution or of the accused, summon
and examine such Magistrate as to the subject-matter of the said report.]
292. Evidence of officers of the Mint.—(1) Any document purporting to be a report under the hand of any
such 2[officer of any Mint or of any Note Printing Press or of any Security Printing Press (including the officer of
the Controller of Stamps and Stationery) or of any Forensic Department or Division of Forensic Science Laboratory
or any Government Examiner of Questioned Documents or any State Examiner of Questioned Documents, as the
case may be,] as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf, upon any matter or thing duly
submitted to him for examination and report in the course of any proceeding under this Code, may be used as
evidence in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code, although such officer is not called as a witness.
(2) The Court may, if it thinks fit, summon and examine any such officer as to the subject-matter of his report:
Provided that no such officer shall be summoned to produce any records on which the report is based.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), no
such officer shall, 2[except with the permission of the General Manager or any officer in charge of any Mint or of any
Note Printing Press or of any Security Printing Press or of any Forensic Department or any officer in charge of the
Forensic Science Laboratory or of the Government Examiner of Questioned Documents Organisation or of the State
Examiner of Questioned Documents Organisation, as the case may be,] be permitted—
(a) to give any evidence derived from any unpublished official records on which the report is based; or
(b) to disclose the nature or particulars of any test applied by him in the course of the examination of the
matter or thing.
293. Reports of certain Government scientific experts.—(1) Any document purporting to be a report under
the hand of a Government scientific expert to whom this section applies, upon any matter or thing duly submitted to
him for examination or analysis and report in the course of any proceeding under this Code, may be used as
evidence in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code.
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 24 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, s. 5, for certain words (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).