193
Explanation.—A Court shall be deemed to be closed on any day within the meaning of this section, if,
during its normal working hours, it remains closed on that day.
472. Continuing offence.—In the case of a continuing offence, a fresh period of limitation shall begin to
run at every moment of the time during which the offence continues.
473. Extension of period of limitation in certain cases.—Notwithstanding anything contained in the
foregoing provisions of this Chapter, any Court may take cognizance of an offence after the expiry of the
period of limitation, if it is satisfied on the facts and in the circumstances of the case that the delay has been
properly explained or that it is necessary so to do in the interests of justice.
CHAPTER XXXVII
MISCELLANEOUS
474. Trials before High Courts.—When an offence is tried by the High Court otherwise than under
section 407, it shall, in the trial of the offence, observe the same procedure as a Court of Sessions would
observe if it were trying the case.
475. Delivery to commanding officers of persons liable to be tried by Court-martial.—(1) The Central
Government may make rules consistent with this Code and the Army Act, 1950 (46 of 1950), the Navy Act, 1957
(62 of 1957), and the Air Force Act, 1950 (45 of 1950), and any other law, relating to the Armed Forces of the
Union, for the time being in force, as to cases in which persons subject to military, naval or air-force law, or such
other law, shall be tried by a Court to which this Code applies, or by a Court-martial; and when any person is
brought before a Magistrate and charged with an offence for which he is liable to be tried either by a Court to which
this Code applies or by a Court-martial, such Magistrate shall have regard to such rules, and shall in proper cases
deliver him, together with a statement of the offence of which he is accused, to the commanding officer of the
unit to which he belongs, or to the commanding officer of the nearest military, naval or air-force station, as the case
may be, for the purpose of being tried by a Court-martial.
Explanation.—In this section—
(a) “Unit” includes a regiment, corps, ship, detachment, group, battalion or Company,
(b) “Court-martial” includes any Tribunal with the powers similar to those of a Court-martial constituted
under the relevant law applicable to the Armed Forces of the Union.
(2) Every Magistrate shall, on receiving a written application for that purpose by the commanding officer of any
unit or body of soldiers, sailors or airmen stationed or employed at any such place, use his utmost endeavours to
apprehend and secure any person accused of such offence.
(3) A High Court may, if it thinks fit, direct that a prisoner detained in any jail situate within the State be
brought before a Court-martial for trial or to be examined touching any matter pending before the Court-martial.
476. Forms.—Subject to the power conferred by article 227 of the Constitution, the forms set forth in the
Second Schedule, with such variations as the circumstances of each case require, may be used for the respective
purposes therein mentioned, and if used shall be sufficient.
477. Power of High Court to make rules.—(1) Every High Court may, with the previous approval of the State
Government, make rules—
(a) as to the persons who may be permitted to act as petition-writers in the Criminal Courts subordinate to
it;
(b) regulating the issue of licences to such persons, the conduct of business by them, and the scale of fees to
be charged by them;