168
(iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or the nature and extent, of the
sentence, but not so as to enhance the same—
(c) in an appeal for enhancement of sentence—
(i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused or order him to be re-tried by a
Court competent to try the offence, or
(ii) alter the finding maintaining the sentence, or
(iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or, the nature and extent, of the
sentence, so as to enhance or reduce the same;
(d) in an appeal from any other order, alter or reverse such order;
(e) make any amendment or any consequential or incidental order that may be just or proper:
Provided that the sentence shall not be enhanced unless the accused has had an opportunity of showing cause
against such enhancement:
Provided further that the Appellate Court shall not inflict greater punishment for the offence which in its
opinion the accused has committed, than might have been inflicted for that offence by the Court passing the order or
sentence under appeal.
387. Judgments of Subordinate Appellate Court.—The rules contained in Chapter XXVII as to the judgment
of a Criminal Court of original jurisdiction shall apply, so far as may be practicable, to the judgment in appeal of a
Court of Session or Chief Judicial Magistrate:
Provided that, unless the Appellate Court otherwise directs, the accused shall not be brought up, or required to
attend, to hear judgment delivered.
388. Order of High Court on appeal to be certified to lower Court.—(1) Whenever a case is decided on
appeal by the High Court under this Chapter, it shall certify its judgment or order to the Court by which the finding,
sentence or order appealed against was recorded or passed and if such Court is that of a Judicial Magistrate other
than the Chief Judicial Magistrate, the High Court's judgment or order shall be sent through the Chief Judicial
Magistrate, and if such Court is that of an Executive Magistrate, the High Court’s judgment or order shall be sent
through the District Magistrate.
(2) The Court to which the High Court certifies its judgment or order shall thereupon make such orders as are
conformable to the judgment or order of the High Court; and if necessary, the record shall be amended in
accordance therewith.
389. Suspension of sentence pending the appeal; release of appellant on bail.—(1) Pending any appeal by a
convicted person, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, order that the execution of the
sentence or order appealed against be suspended and, also, if he is in confinement, that he be released on bail, or on
his own bond:
1[Provided that the Appellate Court shall, before releasing on bail or on his own bond a convicted person who is
convicted of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten
years, shall give opportunity to the Public Prosecutor for showing cause in writing against such release:
Provided further that in cases where a convicted person is released on bail it shall be open to the Public
Prosecutor to file an application for the cancellation of the bail.]
(2) The power conferred by this section on a Appellate Court may be exercised also by the High Court in the
case of an appeal by a convicted person to a Court subordinate thereto.
(3) Where the convicted person satisfies the Court by which he is convicted that he intends to present an appeal,
the Court shall,—
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 33 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).