195
481. Public servant concerned in sale not to purchase or bid for property.—A public servant having any
duty to perform in connection with the sale of any property under this Code shall not purchase or bid for the
property.
482. Saving of inherent powers of High Court.—Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or affect the
inherent powers of the High Court to make such orders as may be necessary to give effect to any order under this
Code, or to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice.
483. Duty of High Court to exercise continuous superintendence over Courts of Judicial Magistrates.—
Every High Court shall so exercise its superintendence over the Courts of Judicial Magistrates subordinate to it as to
ensure that there is an expeditious and proper disposal of cases by such Magistrates.
484. Repeal and savings.—(1) The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), is hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal—
(a) if, immediately before the date on which this Code comes into force, there is any appeal, application,
trial, inquiry or investigation pending, then, such appeal, application, trial, inquiry or investigation shall be
disposed of, continued, held or made, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), as in force immediately before such commencement (hereinafter referred
to as the old Code), as if this Code had not come into force:
Provided that every inquiry under Chapter XVIII of the Old Code, which is pending at the commencement
of this Code, shall be dealt with and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this Code;
(b) all notifications published, proclamations issued, powers conferred, forms prescribed, local jurisdictions
defined, sentences passed and orders, rules and appointments, not being appointments as Special Magistrates,
made under the Old Code and which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Code, shall be
deemed, respectively, to have been published, issued, conferred, prescribed, defined, passed or made under the
corresponding provisions of this Code;
(c) any sanction accorded or consent given under the Old Code in pursuance of which no proceeding was
commenced under that Code, shall be deemed to have been accorded or given under the corresponding
provisions of this Code and proceedings may be commenced under this Code in pursuance of such sanction of
consent;
(d) the provisions of the Old Code shall continue to apply in relation to every prosecution against a Ruler
within the meaning of article 363 of the Constitution.
(3) Where the period prescribed for an application or other proceeding under the Old Code had expired on or
before the commencement of this Code, nothing in this Code shall be construed as enabling any such application to
be made or proceeding to be commenced under this Code by reason only of the fact that a longer period therefor is
prescribed by this Code or provisions are made in this Code for the extension of time.