24
(b) to a Magistrate of the second class or of the third class, shall be construed as a reference to a
Judicial Magistrate of the second class;
(c) to a Presidency Magistrate or Chief Presidency Magistrate, shall be construed as a reference,
respectively, to a Metropolitan Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate;
(d) to any area which is included in a Metropolitan area, as a reference to such metropolitan area,
and any reference to a Magistrate of the first class or of the second class in relation to such area, shall
be construed as a reference to the Metropolitan Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in such area.
(4) Where, under any law, other than this Code, the function exercisable by a Magistrate relate to
matters,—
(a) which involve the appreciation or sifting of evidence or the formulation of any decision which
exposes any person to any punishment or penalty or detention in custody pending investigation,
inquiry or trial or would have the effect of sending him for trial before any Court, they shall, subject
to the provisions of this Code, be exercisable by a Judicial Magistrate; or
(b) which are administrative or executive in nature, such as, the granting of a licence, the
suspension or cancellation of a licence, sanctioning a prosecution or withdrawing from a prosecution,
they shall, subject as aforesaid, be exercisable by an Executive Magistrate.
STATE AMENDMENT
Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Lakshadweep
Insertion of New section 3A. —In the Code, as it applies to the Union territory of Andaman and
Nicobar Islands, after section 3, the following section shall be inserted, namely:—
“3A. Special provision relating to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. —(1) Reference in this Code to—
(a) The Chief Judicial Magistrate shall be construed as references to the District Magistrate or, where
the State Government so directs, also to the Additional District Magistrate;
(b) a Magistrate or Magistrate of the first class or of the second class or Judicial Magistrate of the first
class or of the second class, shall be construed as references to such Executive Magistrate as the State
Government may, be notification in the Official Gazette, specify.
(2) The State Government may, if it is of opinion that adequate number of persons are available for
appointment as Judicial Magistrate, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that the provisions of this
section shall, on and from such day as may be specified in the notification, cease to be in force and different
dates may be specified for different islands.
(3) On the cesser of operation of the provisions of this section, every inquiry or trial pending, immediately
before such cesser, before the District Magistrate or Additional District Magistrate or any Executive
Magistrate, as the case may be, shall stand transferred, and shall be dealt with, from the stage which was reached
before, such cesser, by such Judicial Magistrate as the State Government may specify in this behalf.”.
[Vide The Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Regulation, 1974 Act (1 of 1974), s. 3.]
4. Trial of offences under the Indian Penal Code and other laws.—(1) All offences under the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with
according to the provisions hereinafter contained.
(2) All offences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt
with according to the same provisions, but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating
the manner of place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences.
5. Saving.—Nothing contained in this Code shall, in the absence of a specific provision to the
contrary, affect any special or local law for the time being in force, or any special jurisdiction or power
conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by any other law for the time being in force.