37
exceeding three years, or of fine not exceeding 1[ten thousand rupees], or of both.
(3) The Court of Magistrate of the second class may pass a sentence of imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one year, or of fine not exceeding 2[five thousand rupees], or of both.
(4) The Court of a Chief Metropolitan Magistrate shall have the powers of the Court of a Chief
Judicial Magistrate and that of a Metropolitan Magistrate, the powers of the Court of a Magistrate of the
first class.
30. Sentence of imprisonment in default of fine.—(1) The Court of a Magistrate may award such
term of imprisonment in default of payment of fine as is authorised by law:
Provided that the term—
(a) is not in excess of the powers of the Magistrate under section 29;
(b) shall not, where imprisonment has been awarded as part of the substantive sentence, exceed
one-fourth of the term of imprisonment which the Magistrate is competent to inflict as punishment for
the offence otherwise than as imprisonment in default of payment of the fine.
(2) The imprisonment awarded under this section may be in addition to a substantive sentence of
imprisonment for the maximum term awardable by the Magistrate under section 29.
31. Sentence in cases of conviction of several offences at one trial.—(1) When a person is convicted at
one trial of two or more offences, the Court may, subject to the provisions of section 71 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860), sentence him for such offences, to the several punishments prescribed therefor which such
Court is competent to inflict; such punishments when consisting of imprisonment to commence the one after
the expiration of the other in such order as the Court may direct, unless the Court directs that such punishments
shall run concurrently.
(2) In the case of consecutive sentences, it shall not be necessary for the Court by reason only of the
aggregate punishment for the several offences being in excess of the punishment which it is competent to
inflict on conviction of a single offence, to send the offender for trial before a higher Court:
Provided that—
(a) in no case shall such person be sentenced to imprisonment for a longer period than fourteen
years;
(b) the aggregate punishment shall not exceed twice the amount of punishment which the Court
is competent to inflict for a single offence.
(3) For the purpose of appeal by a convicted person, the aggregate of the consecutive sentences
passed against him under this section shall be deemed to be a single sentence.
32. Mode of conferring powers.—(1) In conferring powers under this Code, the High Court or the
State Government, as the case may be, may, by order, empower persons specially by name or in virtue of
their offices or classes of officials generally be their official titles.
(2) Every such order shall take effect from the date on which it is communicated to the person so
empowered.
33. Powers of officers appointed.—Whenever any person holding an office in the service of
Government who has been invested by the High Court or the State Government with any powers under
this Code throughout any local area is appointed to an equal or higher office of the same nature, within a
like local area under the same State Government, he shall, unless the High Court or the State Government,
as the case may be, otherwise directs, or has otherwise directed, exercise the same powers in the local
area in which he is so appointed.
34. Withdrawal of powers.—(1) The High Court or the State Government, as the case may be, may
withdraw all or any of the powers conferred by it under this Code on any person or by any officer
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 5, for “five thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Subs. by s. 5, ibid., for “one thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).