44
whenever a person is arrested without warrant, or by a private person under a warrant, and cannot legally be
admitted to bail, or is unable to furnish bail,
the officer making the arrest or, when the arrest is made by a private person, the police officer to whom he
makes over the person arrested, may search such person, and place in safe custody all articles, other than necessary
wearing-apparel, found upon him and where any article is seized from the arrested person, a receipt showing the
articles taken in possession by the police officer shall be given to such person.
(2) Whenever it is necessary to cause a female to be searched, the search shall be made by another female with
strict regard to decency.
52. Power to seize offensive weapons.—The officer or other person making any arrest under this Code may
take from the person arrested any offensive weapons which he has about his person, and shall deliver all weapons so
taken to the Court or officer before which or whom the officer or person making the arrest is required by this Code
to produce the person arrested.
53. Examination of accused by medical practitioner at the request of police officer.—(1) When a person is
arrested on a charge of committing an offence of such a nature and alleged to have been committed under such
circumstances that there are reasonable grounds for believing that an examination of his person will afford evidence as to
the commission of an offence, it shall be lawful for a registered medical practitioner, acting at the request of a police
officer not below the rank of sub-inspector, and for any person acting in good faith in his aid and under his direction, to
make such an examination of the person arrested as is reasonably necessary in order to ascertain the facts which may
afford such evidence, and to use such force as is reasonably necessary for that purpose.
(2) Whenever the person of a female is to be examined under this section, the examination shall be made only
by, or under the supervision of, a female registered medical practitioner.
1[Explanation.—In this section and in sections 53A and 54,—
(a) “examination” shall include the examination of blood, blood stains, semen, swabs in case of sexual
offences, sputum and sweat, hair samples and finger nail clippings by the use of modern and scientific
techniques including DNA profiling and such other tests which the registered medical practitioner thinks
necessary in a particular case;
(b) “registered medical practitioner” means a medical practitioner who possesses any medical qualification
as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) and whose name has
been entered in a State Medical Register.]
2[53A. Examination of person accused of rape by medical practitioner.—(1) When a person is arrested on a
charge of committing an offence of rape or an attempt to commit rape and there are reasonable grounds for believing
that an examination of his person will afford evidence as to the commission of such offence, it shall be lawful for a
registered medical practitioner employed in a hospital run by the Government or by a local authority and in the absence
of such a practitioner within the radius of sixteen kilometres from the place where the offence has been committed, by
any other registered medical practitioner, acting at the request of a police officer not below the rank of a sub-inspector,
and for any person acting in good faith in his aid and under his direction, to make such an examination of the arrested
person and to use such force as is reasonably necessary for that purpose.
(2) The registered medical practitioner conducting such examination shall, without delay, examine such person
and prepare a report of his examination giving the following particulars, namely:—
(i) the name and address of the accused and of the person by whom he was brought,
(ii) the age of the accused,
(iii) marks of injury, if any, on the person of the accused,
(iv) the description of material taken from the person of the accused for DNA profiling, and
(v) other material particulars in reasonable detail.
(3) The report shall state precisely the reasons for each conclusion arrived at.
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 8, for the Explanation (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Ins. by s. 9, ibid. (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).