75
or alter any order made under this section, by himself or any Magistrate subordinate to him or by his
predecessor-in-office.
(6) The State Government may, either on its own motion or on the application of any person aggrieved,
rescind or alter any order made by it under the proviso to sub-section (4).
(7) Where an application under sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) is received, the Magistrate, or the State
Government, as the case may be, shall afford to the applicant an early opportunity of appearing before him or
it, either in person or by pleader and showing cause against the order; and if the Magistrate or the State
Government, as the case may be, rejects the application wholly or in part, he or it shall record in writing the
reasons for so doing.
1[144A. Power to prohibit carrying arms in procession or mass drill or mass training with
arms.—(1) The District Magistrate may, whenever he considers it necessary so to do for the
preservation of public peace or public safety or for the maintenance of public order, by public notice
or by order, prohibit in any area within the local limits of his jurisdiction, the carrying of arms in any
procession or the organising or holding of, or taking part in, any mass drill or mass training with
arms in any public place.
(2) A public notice issued or an order made under this section may be directed to a particular
person or to persons belonging to any community, party or organisation.
(3) No public notice issued or an order made under this section shall remain in force for more
than three months from the date on which it is issued or made.
(4) The State Government may, if it considers necessary so to do for the preservation of public
peace or public safety or for the maintenance of public order, by notification, direct that a public
notice issued or order made by the District Magistrate under this section shall remain in force for
such further period not exceeding six months from the date on which such public notice or order was
issued or made by the District Magistrate would have, but for such direction, expired, as it may
specify in the said notification.
(5) The State Government may, subject to such control and directions as it may deem fit to
impose, by general or special order, delegate its powers under sub-section (4) to the District
Magistrate.
Explanation.—The word “arms” shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 153AA of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
D.—Disputes as to immovable property
145. Procedure where dispute concerning land or water is likely to cause breach of peace.—
(1) Whenever an Executive Magistrate is satisfied from a report of a police officer or upon other
information that a dispute likely to cause a breach of the peace exists concerning any land or water or
the boundaries thereof, within his local jurisdiction, he shall make an order in writing, stating the
grounds of his being so satisfied, and requiring the parties concerned in such dispute to attend his
Court in person or by pleader, on a specified date and time, and to put in written statements of their
respective claims as respects the fact of actual possession of the subject of dispute.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the expression “land or water” includes buildings, markets,
fisheries, crops or other produce of land, and the rents or profits of any such property.
(3) A copy of the order shall be served in the manner provided by this Code for the service of a
summons upon such person or persons as the Magistrate may direct, and at least one copy shall be
published by being affixed to some conspicuous place at or near the subject of dispute.
(4) The Magistrate shall then, without reference to the merits or the claims of any of the parties
to a right to possess the subject of dispute, persue the statements so put in, hear the parties, receive
all such evidence as may be produced by them, take such further evidence, if any, as he thinks
necessary, and, if possible, decide whether any and which of the parties was, at the date of the order
made by him under sub-section (1), in possession of the subject of dispute:
Provided that if it appears to the Magistrate that any party has been forcibly and wrongfully
dispossessed within two months next before the date on which the report of a police officer or other
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 16 (date yet to be notified, see appendix)