71
order to disperse such assembly or that they may be punished according to law.
130. Use of armed forces to disperse assembly.—(1) If any such assembly cannot be otherwise dispersed, and
if it is necessary for the public security that it should be dispersed, the Executive Magistrate of the highest rank who
is present may cause it to be dispersed by the armed forces.
(2) Such Magistrate may require any officer in command of any group of persons belonging to the armed forces
to disperse the assembly with the help of the armed forces under his command, and to arrest and confine such
persons forming part of it as the Magistrate may direct, or as it may be necessary to arrest and confine in order to
disperse the assembly or to have them punished according to law.
(3) Every such officer of the armed forces shall obey such requisition in such manner as he thinks fit, but in so
doing he shall use as little force, and do as little injury to person and property, as may be consistent with dispersing
the assembly and arresting and detaining such persons.
131. Power of certain armed force officers to disperse assembly.—When the public security is manifestly
endangered by any such assembly and no Executive Magistrate can be communicated with, any commissioned or
gazetted officer of the armed forces may disperse such assembly with the help of the armed forces under his
command, and may arrest and confine any persons forming part of it, in order to disperse such assembly or that they
may be punished according to law; but if, while he is acting under this section, it becomes practicable for him to
communicate with an Executive Magistrate, he shall do so, and shall thenceforward obey the instructions of the
Magistrate, as to whether he shall or shall not continue such action.
132. Protection against prosecution for acts done under preceding sections.—(1) No prosecution against
any person for any act purporting to be done under section 129, section 130 or section 131 shall be instituted in any
Criminal Court except—
(a) with the sanction of the Central Government where such person is an officer or member of the armed
forces;
(b) with the sanction of the State Government in any other case.
(2) (a) No Executive Magistrate or police officer acting under any of the said sections in good faith;
(b) no person doing any act in good faith in compliance with a requisition under section 129 or section 130;
(c) no officer of the armed forces acting under section 131 in good faith;
(d) no member of the armed forces doing any act in obedience to any order which he was bound to obey,
shall be deemed to have thereby committed an offence.
(3) In this section and in the preceding sections of this Chapter,—
(a) the expression “armed forces” means the military, naval and air forces, operating as land forces and
includes any other armed forces of the Union so operating;
(b) “officer”, in relation to the armed forces, means a person commissioned, gazetted or in pay as an officer
of the armed forces and includes a junior commissioned officer, a warrant officer, a petty officer, a non-
commissioned officer and a non-gazetted officer;
(c) “member”, in relation to the armed forces, means a person in the armed forces other than an officer.