92
(b) the nature of the information;
(c) the names of the persons who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case;
(d) whether any offence appears to have been committed and, if so, by whom;
(e) whether the accused has been arrested;
(f) whether he has been released on his bond and, if so, whether with or without sureties;
(g) whether he has been forwarded in custody under section 170.
1[(h) whether the report of medical examination of the woman has been attached where investigation relates
to an offence under 2[ sections 376, 376A, 376AB, 376B, 376C, 376D, 376DA, 376DB] or section 376E of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860)].]
(ii) The officer shall also communicate, in such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government, the
action taken by him, to the person, if any, by whom the information relating to the commission of the offence was
first given.
(3) Where a superior officer of police has been appointed under section 158, the report shall, in any case in
which the State Government by general or special order so directs, be submitted through that officer, and he may,
pending the orders of the Magistrate, direct the officer in charge of the police station to make further investigation.
(4) Whenever it appears from a report forwarded under this section that the accused has been released on his
bond, the Magistrate shall make such order for the discharge of such bond or otherwise as he thinks fit.
(5) When such report is in respect of a case to which section 170 applies, the police officer shall forward to the
Magistrate along with the report—
(a) all documents or relevant extracts thereof on which the prosecution proposes to rely other than those
already sent to the Magistrate during investigation;
(b) the statements recorded under section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine
as its witnesses.
(6) If the police officer is of opinion that any part of any such statement is not relevant to the subject-matter of
the proceedings or that its disclosure to the accused is not essential in the interests of justice and is inexpedient in the
public interest, he shall indicate that part of the statement and append a note requesting the Magistrate to exclude
that part from the copies to be granted to the accused and stating his reasons for making such request.
(7) Where the police officer investigating the case finds it convenient so to do, he may furnish to the accused
copies of all or any of the documents referred to in sub-section (5).
(8) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude further investigation in respect of an offence after a
report under sub-section (2) has been forwarded to the Magistrate and, where upon such investigation, the officer in
charge of the police station obtains further evidence, oral or documentary, he shall forward to the Magistrate a
further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed; and the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (6)
shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such report or reports as they apply in relation to a report forwarded
under sub-section (2).
174. Police to enquire and report on suicide, etc.—(1) When the officer in charge of a police station or some
other police officer specially empowered by the State Government in that behalf receives information that a person
has committed suicide, or has been killed by another or by an animal or by machinery or by an accident, or has died
under circumstances raising a reasonable suspicion that some other person has committed an offence, he shall
immediately give intimation thereof to the nearest Executive Magistrate empowered to hold inquests, and, unless
otherwise directed by any rule prescribed by the State Government, or by any general or special order of the District
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 16 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).
2. Subs. by Act 22 of 2018, s. 14, for “section 376, 376A, 376B, 376C, 387D” (w.e.f. 21-4-2018).