248
III. CHARGES FOR THEFT AFTER PREVIOUS CONVICTION
I, (name and office of Magistrate, etc.)
hereby charge you (name of accused person) as follows: —
That you, on or about the day of , at , committed
theft, and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 379 of the Indian Penal Code, and
within the cognizance of the Court of Session (or Magistrate, as the case may be). And you, the said
(name of accused), stand further charged that you, before the committing of the said offence, that is to
say, on the day of , had been convicted by the (state Court by which
conviction was had) at of an offence punishable under Chapter XVII of the
Indian Penal Code with imprisonment for a term of three years, that is to say, the offence of
house-breaking by night (describe the offence in the words used in the section
under which the accused was convicted), which conviction is still in full force and effect, and that you are
thereby liable to enhanced punishment under section 75 of the Indian Penal Code.
And I hereby direct that you be tried, etc.
FORM No. 33
SUMMONS TO WITNESS
(See sections 61 and 244)
To of
WHEREAS complaint has been made before me that (name of the
accused) of (address) has (or is suspected to have) committed the offence
of (state the offence concisely with time and place), and it appears to me
that you are likely to give material evidence or to produce any document or other thing for the
prosecution;
You are hereby summoned to appear before this Court on the day of next at
ten o’clock in the forenoon, to produce such document or thing or to testify what you know concerning
the matter of the said complaint, and not to depart thence without leave of the Court; and you are hereby
warned that, if you shall without just excuse neglect or refuse to appear on the said date, a warrant will be
issued to compel your attendance.
Dated, this
day of
,19 .
(Seal of the Court)
(Signature)
FORM No. 34
WARRANT OF COMMITMENT ON A SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT OR FINE IF PASSED BY A 1[COURT]
2[(See sections 235, 248 and 255)]
To the Officer in charge of Jail at
WHEREAS on the day of , (name of the prisoner),
the (1st, 2nd, 3rd, as the case may be) prisoner in case No. of the Calendar for 19 ,
was convicted before me (name and official designation) of the
offence of (mention the offence or offences concisely)
under section (or sections) of the Indian Penal Code (or of Act ), and
was sentenced to (state the punishment fully and distinctly);
This is to authorise and require you to receive the said (prisoner’s name)
into your custody in the said Jail, together with this warrant, and thereby carry the aforesaid sentence into
execution according to law.
Dated, this
day of
,19 .
(Seal of the Court)
(Signature)
1. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 35, for “MAGISTRATE”.
2. Subs. by s. 35, ibid, for “(See sections 248 and 355)” (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).