26
(b) for sub-section (3), substitute the following sub-section, namely:—
“(3) The State Government may, by notification divide a metropolitan area into two or more such
areas or extend or reduce or alter the limits of a metropolitan area:
Provided that—
(a) the division of metropolitan area shall not be so made as to result in the population of any of the
areas into which it has been divided being less than one million; and
(b) the reduction or alteration of metropolitan area shall not be so made as to reduce the population
of such area to less than one million.”;
(c) after sub-section (4), insert the following sub-section, namely: —
“(4-A) Where any metropolitan area is divided under sub-section (3), the High Court may issue such
directions as it deems fit with respect to the disposal of the proceedings pendings immediately before such
division before any Magistrate or court having jurisdiction in respect of such area.”
[Vide Delhi Act 9 of 2011, s. 2.]
9. Court of Session.—(1) The State Government shall establish a Court of Session for every sessions
division.
(2) Every Court of Session shall be presided over by a Judge, to be appointed by the High Court.
(3) The High Court may also appoint Additional Sessions Judges and Assistant Session Judges to
exercise jurisdiction in a Court of Session.
(4) The Sessions Judge of one sessions division may be appointed by the High Court to be also an
Additional Sessions Judge of another division, and in such case he may sit for the disposal of cases at
such place or places in the other division as the High Court may direct.
(5) Where the office of the Sessions Judge is vacant, the High Court may make arrangements for the
disposal of any urgent application which is, or may be, made or pending before such Court of Session by
an Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge, or, if there be no Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge, by a
Chief Judicial Magistrate, in the sessions division; and every such Judge or Magistrate shall have
jurisdiction to deal with any such application.
(6) The Court of Session shall ordinarily hold its sitting at such place or places as the High Court
may, by notification, specify; but, if, in any particular case, the Court of Session is of opinion that it will
tend to the general convenience of the parties and witnesses to hold its sittings at any other place in the
sessions division, it may, with the consent of the prosecution and the accused, sit at that place for the
disposal of the case or the examination of any witness or witnesses therein.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this Code, “appointment” does not include the first appointment,
posting or promotion of a person by the Government to any Service, or post in connection with the affairs of
the Union or of a State, where under any law, such appointment, posting or promotion is required to be
made by Government.