70
person 1[as monthly allowance for the maintenance and interim maintenance or any of them, as the case may be, in
pursuance of] the said order.
STATE AMENDMENTS
Madhya Pradesh
Amendment of section 127.—In sub-section (1) of section 127 of the principal Act, for the words
“father or mother”, the words “father, mother, grand father, grand mother” shall be substituted.
[Vide Madhya Pradesh Act 15 of 2004, s. 4.]
West Bengal
In the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 127 of the principal Act, for the words “five hundred
rupees”, the words “one thousand and five hundred rupees” shall be substituted.
[Vide West Bengal Act 14 of 1995, s. 3.]
West Bengal
In Sub-section (1) of section 127 of the principal Act, the proviso shall be omitted.
[Vide West Bengal Act 33 of 2001, s. 4.]
128. Enforcement of order of maintenance.—A copy of the order of 2[maintenance or interim maintenance
and expenses of proceedings, as the case may be,] shall be given without payment to the person in whose favour it is
made, or to his guardian, if any, or to the person to 3[whom the allowance for the maintenance or the allowance for
the interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding, as the case may be,] is to be paid; and such order may be
enforced by any Magistrate in any place where the person against whom it is made may be, on such Magistrate
being satisfied as to the identity of the parties and the non-payment of the 4[allowance, or as the case may be,
expenses, due].
CHAPTER X
MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC ORDER AND TRANQUILLITY
A.—Unlawful assemblies
129. Dispersal of assembly by use of civil force.—(1) Any Executive Magistrate or officer in charge of a
police station or, in the absence of such officer in charge, any police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector,
may command any unlawful assembly, or any assembly of five or more persons likely to cause a disturbance of the
public peace, to disperse; and it shall thereupon be the duty of the members of such assembly to disperse
accordingly.
(2) If, upon being so commanded, any such assembly does not disperse, or if, without being so commanded, it
conducts itself in such a manner as to show a determination not to disperse, any Executive Magistrate or police
officer referred to in sub-section (1), may proceed to disperse such assembly by force, and may require the
assistance of any male person, not being an officer or member of the armed forces and acting as such, for the
purpose of dispersing such assembly, and, if necessary, arresting and confining the persons who form part of it, in
1. Subs. by Act 50 of 2001, s. 3, for “monthly allowance in pursuance of” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
2. Subs. by s. 4, ibid., for “maintenance” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
3. Subs. by s. 4, ibid., for “whom the allowance” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
4. Subs. by s. 4, ibid., for “allowance due” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).