52
(b) if at such time he fails to appear and the summons is proved to have been duly served in time
to admit of his appearing in accordance therewith and no reasonable excuse is offered for such failure.
88. Power to take bond for appearance.—When any person for whose appearance or arrest the
officer presiding in any Court is empowered to issue a summons or warrant, is present in such Court, such
officer may require such person to execute a bond, with or without sureties, for his appearance in such
Court, or any other Court to which the case may be transferred for trial.
89. Arrest on breach of bond for appearance.—When any person who is bound by any bond taken
under this Code to appear before a Court, does not appear, the officer presiding in such Court may issue a
warrant directing that such person be arrested and produced before him.
90. Provisions of this Chapter generally applicable to summonses and warrants of arrest.—The
provisions contained in this Chapter relating to a summons and warrant, and their issue, service and
execution, shall, so far as may be, apply to every summons and every warrant of arrest issued under this
Code.
CHAPTER VII
PROCESSES TO COMPEL THE PRODUCTION OF THINGS
A.—Summons to produce
91. Summons to produce document or other thing.—(1) Whenever any Court or any officer in
charge of a police station considers that the production of any document or other thing is necessary or
desirable for the purposes of any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code by or
before such Court or officer, such Court may issue a summons, or such officer a written order, to the
person in whose possession or power such document or thing is believed to be, requiring him to attend
and produce it, or to produce it, at the time and place stated in the summons or order.
(2) Any person required under this section merely to produce a document or other thing shall be
deemed to have complied with the requisition if he causes such document or thing to be produced instead
of attending personally to produce the same.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be deemed—
(a) to affect sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), or the Bankers’
Books Evidence Act, 1891 (13 of 1891), or
(b) to apply to a letter, postcard, telegram or other document or any parcel or thing in the custody
of the postal or telegraph authority.
92. Procedure as to letters and telegrams.—(1) If any document, parcel or thing in the custody of a
postal or telegraph authority is, in the opinion of the District Magistrate, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Court
of Session or High Court wanted for the purpose of any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceeding
under this Code, such Magistrate or Court may require the postal or telegraph authority, as the case may
be, to deliver the document, parcel or thing to such person as the Magistrate or Court directs.
(2) If any such document, parcel or thing is, in the opinion of any other Magistrate, whether
Executive or Judicial, or of any Commissioner of Police or District Superintendent of Police, wanted for
any such purpose, he may require the postal or telegraph authority, as the case may be, to cause search to
be made for and to detain such document, parcel or thing pending the order of a District Magistrate, Chief
Judicial Magistrate or Court under sub-section (1).
B.—Search-warrants
93. When search-warrant may be issued.—(1) (a) Where any Court has reason to believe that a
person to whom a summons order under section 91 or a requisition under sub-section (1) of section 92 has