105
(3) In a proceeding instituted upon a complaint made in writing, every summons or warrant issued
under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by a copy of such complaint.
(4) When by any law for the time being in force any process-fees or other fees are payable, no process
shall be issued until the fees are paid and, if such fees are not paid within a reasonable time, the
Magistrate may dismiss the complaint.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the provisions of section 87.
205. Magistrate may dispense with personal attendance of accused.—(1) Whenever a Magistrate
issues a summons, he may, if he sees reason so to do, dispense with the personal attendance of the
accused and permit him to appear by his pleader.
(2) But the Magistrate inquiring into or trying the case may, in his discretion, at any stage of the
proceedings, direct the personal attendance of the accused, and, if necessary, enforce such attendance in
the manner hereinbefore provided.
206. Special summons in cases of petty offence.—(1) If, in the opinion of a Magistrate taking
cognizance of a petty offence, the case may be summarily disposed of under section 260 1[or section 261],
the Magistrate shall, except where he is, for reasons to be recorded in writing of a contrary opinion, issue
summons to the accused requiring him either to appear in person or by pleader before the Magistrate on a
specified date, or if he desires to plead guilty to the charge without appearing before the Magistrate, to
transmit before the specified date, by post or by messenger to the Magistrate, the said plea in writing and
the amount of fine specified in the summons or if he desires to appear by pleader and to plead guilty to
the charge through such pleader, to authorise, in writing, the pleader to plead guilty to the charge on his
behalf and to pay the fine through such pleader:
Provided that the amount of the fine specified in such summons shall not exceed 2[one thousand
rupees].
(2) For the purposes of this section, “petty offence” means any offence punishable only with fine
not exceeding one thousand rupees, but does not include any offence so punishable under the Motor
Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939)3, or under any other law which provides for convicting the accused
person in his absence on a plea of guilty.
4[(3) The State Government may, by notification, specially empower any Magistrate to exercise
the powers conferred by sub-section (1) in relation to any offence which is compoundable under
section 320 or any offence punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or
with fine, or with both where the Magistrate is of opinion that, having regard to the facts and
circumstances of the case, the imposition of fine only would meet the ends of justice.]
207. Supply to the accused of copy of police report and other documents.—In any case where
the proceeding has been instituted on a police report, the Magistrate shall without delay furnish to the
accused, free of cost, a copy of each of the following:—
(i) the police report;
(ii) the first information report recorded under section 154;
(iii) the statements recorded under sub-section (3) of section 161 of all persons whom the
prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses, excluding therefrom any part in regard to
which a request for such exclusion has been made by the police officer under sub-section (6) of
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 20 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Subs. by, s. 20, ibid., for “one hundred rupees” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
3. Now the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
4. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 18 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).