178
429. Saving.—(1) Nothing in section 426 or section 427 shall be held to excuse any person from any part of the
punishment to which he is liable upon his former or subsequent conviction.
(2) When an award of imprisonment in default of payment of a fine is annexed to a substantive sentence of
imprisonment and the person undergoing the sentence is after its execution to undergo a further substantive sentence
or further substantive sentences of imprisonment, effect shall not be given to the award of imprisonment in default
of payment of the fine until the person has undergone the further sentence or sentences.
430. Return of warrant on execution of sentence.—When a sentence has been fully executed, the officer
executing it shall return the warrant to the Court from which it is issued, with an endorsement under his hand
certifying the manner in which the sentence has been executed.
431. Money ordered to be paid recoverable as a fine.—Any money (other than a fine) payable by virtue of
any order made under this Code, and the method of recovery of which is not otherwise expressly provided for, shall
be recoverable as if it were a fine:
Provided that section 421 shall, in its application to an order under section 359, by virtue of this section, be
construed as if in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 421, after the words and figures “under section 357”, the
words and figures “or an order for payment of costs under section 359” had been inserted.
E.—Suspension, remission and commutation of sentences
432. Power to suspend or remit sentences.—(1) When any person has been sentenced to punishment for an
offence, the appropriate Government may, at any time, without conditions or upon any conditions which the person
sentenced accepts, suspend the execution of his sentence or remit the whole or any part of the punishment to which
he has been sentenced.
(2) Whenever an application is made to the appropriate Government for the suspension or remission of a
sentence, the appropriate Government may require the presiding Judge of the Court before or by which the
conviction was had or confirmed, to state his opinion as to whether the application should be granted or refused,
together with his reasons for such opinion and also to forward with the statement of such opinion a certified copy of
the record of the trial or of such record thereof as exists.
(3) If any condition on which a sentence has been suspended or remitted is, in the opinion of the appropriate
Government, not fulfilled, the appropriate Government may cancel the suspension or remission, and thereupon the
person in whose favour the sentence has been suspended or remitted may, if at large, be arrested by any police
officer, without warrant and remanded to undergo the unexpired portion of the sentence.
(4) The condition on which a sentence is suspended or remitted under this section may be one to be fulfilled by
the person in whose favour the sentence is suspended or remitted, or one independent of his will.
(5) The appropriate Government may, by general rules or special orders, give directions as to the suspension of
sentences and the conditions on which petitions should be presented and dealt with:
Provided that in the case of any sentence (other than a sentence of fine) passed on a male person above the age
of eighteen years, no such petition by the person sentenced or by any other person on his behalf shall be entertained,
unless the person sentenced is in jail, and—
(a) where such petition is made by the person sentenced, it is presented through the officer in charge of the
jail; or
(b) where such petition is made by any other person, it contains a declaration that the person sentenced is in
jail.
(6) The provisions of the above sub-sections shall also apply to any order passed by a Criminal Court under any
section of this Code or of any other law, which restricts the liberty of any person or imposes any liability upon him
or his property.