74
against whom the order was made, and shall further require him to perform the act directed by the order within a
time to be fixed in the notice, and inform him that, in case of disobedience, he will be liable to the penalty provided
by section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(2) If such act is not performed within the time fixed, the Magistrate may cause it to be performed, and may
recover the costs of performing it, either by the sale of any building, goods or other property removed by his order,
or by the distress and sale of any other movable property of such person within or without such Magistrate’s local
jurisdiction, and if such other property is without such jurisdiction, the order shall authorise its attachment and sale
when endorsed by the Magistrate within whose local jurisdiction the property to be attached is found.
(3) No suit shall lie in respect of anything done in good faith under this section.
142. Injunction pending inquiry.—(1) If a Magistrate making an order under section 133 considers that
immediate measures should be taken to prevent imminent danger or injury of a serious kind to the public, he may
issue such an injunction to the person against whom the order was made, as is required to obviate or prevent
such danger or injury pending the determination of the matter.
(2) In default of such person forthwith obeying such injunction, the Magistrate may himself use, or cause
to be used, such means as he thinks fit to obviate such danger or to prevent such injury.
(3) No suit shall lie in respect of anything done in good faith by a Magistrate under this section.
143. Magistrate may prohibit repetition or continuance of public nuisance.—A District Magistrate or
Sub-divisional Magistrate, or any other Executive Magistrate empowered by the State Government or the
District Magistrate in this behalf, may order any person not to repeat or continue a public nuisance, as defined
in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or any special or local law.
C.—Urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger
144. Power to issue order in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger.—(1) In cases where, in
the opinion of a District Magistrate, a Sub-divisional Magistrate or any other Executive Magistrate specially
empowered by the State Government in this behalf, there is sufficient ground for proceeding under this section
and immediate prevention or speedy remedy is desirable, such Magistrate may, by a written order stating the
material facts of the case and served in the manner provided by section 134, direct any person to abstain from a
certain act or to take certain order with respect to certain property in his possession or under his management,
if such Magistrate considers that such direction is likely to prevent, or tends to prevent, obstruction, annoyance
or injury to any person lawfully employed, or danger to human life, health or safety or a disturbance of the
public tranquillity, or a riot, or an affray.
(2) An order under this section may, in cases of emergency or in cases where the circumstances do not
admit of the serving in due time of a notice upon the person against whom the order is directed, be passed ex
parte.
(3) An order under this section may be directed to a particular individual, or to persons residing in a
particular place or area, or to the public generally when frequenting or visiting a particular place or area.
(4) No order under this section shall remain in force for more than two months from the making thereof:
Provided that, if the State Government considers it necessary so to do for preventing danger to human life,
health or safety or for preventing a riot or any affray, it may, by notification, direct that an order made by a
Magistrate under this section shall remain in force for such further period not exceeding six months from the
date on which the order made by the Magistrate would have, but for such order, expired, as it may specify in
the said notification.
(5) Any Magistrate may, either on his own motion or on the application of any person aggrieved, rescind