187
Court to which the case may subsequently be transferred.
(2) If sufficient cause is not shown and the penalty is not paid, the Court may proceed to recover the same as if
such penalty were a fine imposed by it under this Code:
1[Provided that where such penalty is not paid and cannot be recovered in the manner aforesaid, the person so
bound as surety shall be liable, by order of the Court ordering the recovery of the penalty, to imprisonment in civil
jail for a term which may extend to six months.]
(3) The Court may, 2[after recording its reasons for doing so], remit any portion of the penalty mentioned and
enforce payment in part only.
(4) Where a surety to a bond dies before the bond is forfeited, his estate shall be discharged from all liability in
respect of the bond.
(5) Where any person who has furnished security under section 106 or section 117 or section 360 is convicted
of an offence the commission of which constitutes a breach of the conditions of his bond, or of a bond executed in
lieu of his bond under section 448, a certified copy of the judgment of the Court by which he was convicted of such
offence may be used as evidence in proceedings under this section against his surety or sureties, and, if such
certified copy is so used, the Court shall presume that such offence was committed by him unless the contrary is
proved.
3[446A. Cancellation of bond and bail bond.—Without prejudice to the provisions of section 446, where a
bond under this Code is for appearance of a person in a case and it is forfeited for breach of a condition,—
(a) the bond executed by such person as well as the bond, if any, executed by one or more of his sureties in
that case shall stand cancelled; and
(b) thereafter no such person shall be released only on his own bond in that case, if the Police Officer or the
Court, as the case may be, for appearance before whom the bond was executed, is satisfied that there was no
sufficient cause for the failure of the person bound by the bond to comply with its condition:
Provided that subject to any other provisions of this Code he may be released in that case upon the execution of
a fresh personal bond for such sum of money and bond by one or more of such sureties as the Police Officer or the
Court, as the case may be, thinks sufficient.]
447. Procedure in case of insolvency of death of surety or when a bond is forfeited.—When any surety to a
bond under this Code becomes insolvent or dies, or when any bond is forfeited under the provisions of section 446,
the Court by whose order such bond was taken, or a Magistrate of the first class may order the person from whom
such security was demanded to furnish fresh securities in accordance with the directions of the original order, and if
such security is not furnished, such Court or Magistrate may proceed as if there had been a default in complying
with such original order.
448. Bond required from minor.—When the person required by any Court, or officer to execute a bond is a
minor, such Court or officer may accept, in lieu thereof, a bond executed by a surety or sureties only.
449. Appeal from orders under section 446.—All orders passed under section 446 shall be appealable,—
(i) in the case of an order made by a Magistrate, to the Sessions Judge;
(ii) in the case of an order made by a Court of Session, to the Court to which an appeal lies from an order
made by such Court.
450. Power to direct levy of amount due on certain recognizances.—The High Court or Court of Sessions
may direct any Magistrate to levy the amount due on a bond for appearance or attendance at such High Court or
1. Added by Act 63 of 1980, s. 6 (w.e.f. 23-9-1980).
2. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 40, for “at its discretion” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
3. Ins. by Act 63 of 1980, s. 7 (w.e.f. 23-9-1980).