73
(2) If such order cannot be so served, it shall be notified by proclamation, published in such manner as the State
Government may, by rules, direct, and a copy thereof shall be struck up at such place or places as may be fittest for
conveying the information to such person.
135. Person to whom order is addressed to obey or show cause.—The person against whom such order is
made shall—
(a) perform, within the time and in the manner specified in the order, the act directed thereby; or
(b) appear in accordance with such order and show cause against the same.
136. Consequences of his failing to do so.—If such person does not perform such act or appear and show
cause, he shall be liable to the penalty prescribed in that behalf in section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860),
and the order shall be made absolute.
137. Procedure where existence of public right is denied.—(1) Where an order is made under section 133 for
the purpose of preventing obstruction, nuisance or danger to the public in the use of any way, river, channel or place,
the Magistrate shall, on the appearance before him of the person against whom the order was made, question him as
to whether he denies the existence of any public right in respect of the way, river, channel or place, and if he does
so, the Magistrate shall, before proceeding under section 138, inquire into the matter.
(2) If in such inquiry the Magistrate finds that there is any reliable evidence in support of such denial, he shall
stay the proceedings until the matter of the existence of such right has been decided by a competent Court; and, if he
finds that there is no such evidence, he shall proceed as laid down in section 138.
(3) A person who has, on being questioned by the Magistrate under sub-section (1), failed to deny the existence
of a public right of the nature therein referred to, or who, having made such denial, has failed to adduce reliable
evidence in support thereof, shall not in the subsequent proceedings be permitted to make any such denial.
138. Procedure where he appears to show cause.—(1) If the person against whom an order under section 133
is made appears and shows cause against the order, the Magistrate shall take evidence in the matter as in a
summons-case.
(2) If the Magistrate is satisfied that the order, either as originally made or subject to such modification as he
considers necessary, is reasonable and proper, the order shall be made absolute without modification or, as the case
may be, with such modification.
(3) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, no further proceedings shall be taken in the case.
139. Power of Magistrate to direct local investigation and examination of an expert.—The Magistrate may,
for the purposes of an inquiry under section 137 or section 138—
(a) direct a local investigation to be made by such person as he thinks fit; or
(b) summon and examine an expert.
140. Power of Magistrate to furnish written instructions, etc.—(1) Where the Magistrate directs a local
investigation by any person under section 139, the Magistrate may—
(a) furnish such person with such written instructions as may seem necessary for his guidance;
(b) declare by whom the whole or any part of the necessary expenses of the local investigation shall be paid.
(2) The report of such person may be read as evidence in the case.
(3) Where the Magistrate summons and examines an expert under section 139, the Magistrate may direct by
whom the costs of such summoning and examination shall be paid.
141. Procedure on order being made absolute and consequences of disobedience.—(1) When an order has
been made absolute under section 136 or section 138, the Magistrate shall give notice of the same to the person