179
(7) In this section and in section 433, the expression “appropriate Government” means,—
(a) in cases where the sentence is for an offence against, or the order referred to in sub-section (6) is passed
under, any law relating to a matter to which the executive power of the Union extends, the Central Government;
(b) in other cases, the Government of the State within which the offender is sentenced or the said order is
passed.
433. Power to commute sentence.—The appropriate Government may, without the consent of the person
sentenced, commute—
(a) a sentence of death, for any other punishment provided by the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);
(b) a sentence of imprisonment for life, for imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years or for
fine;
(c) a sentence of rigorous imprisonment, for simple imprisonment for any term to which that person might
have been sentenced, or for fine;
(d) a sentence of simple imprisonment, for fine.
1[433A. Restriction on powers of remission or commutation in certain cases.—Notwithstanding anything
contained in section 432, where a sentence of imprisonment for life is imposed on conviction of a person for an
offence for which death is one of the punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death imposed on a
person has been commuted under section 433 into one of imprisonment for life, such person shall not be released
from prison unless he had served at least fourteen years of imprisonment.]
434. Concurrent power of Central Government in case of death sentences.—The powers conferred by
sections 432 and 433 upon the State Government may, in the case of sentences of death, also be exercised by the
Central Government.
435. State Government to act after consultation with Central Government in certain cases.—(1) The
powers conferred by sections 432 and 433 upon the State Government to remit or commute a sentence, in any case
where the sentence is for an offence—
(a) which was investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment constituted under the Delhi Special
Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946), or by any other agency empowered to make investigation into an
offence under any Central Act other than this Code, or
(b) which involved the misappropriation or destruction of, or damage to, any property belonging to the
Central Government, or
(c) which was committed by a person in the service of the Central Government while acting or purporting
to act in the discharge of his official duty,
shall not be exercised by the State Government except after consultation with the Central Government.
(2) No order of suspension, remission or commutation of sentences passed by the State Government in relation
to a person, who has been convicted of offences, some of which relate to matters to which the executive power of
the Union extends, and who has been sentenced to separate terms of imprisonment which are to run concurrently,
shall have effect unless an order for the suspension, remission or commutation, as the case may be, of such
sentences has also been made by the Central Government in relation to the offences committed by such person with
regard to matters to which the executive power of the Union extends.
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 32 (w.e.f.18-12-1978).