29
Himachal Pradesh
Amendment of Section 13.— in Sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974) in its application to the State of Himachal Pradesh for the words “in any district” the
words “in any local area” shall be substituted.
[Vide Himachal Pradesh Act 40 of 1976, s. 2.]
14. Local jurisdiction of Judicial Magistrates.—(1) Subject to the control of the High Court, the
Chief Judicial Magistrate may, from time to time, define the local limits of the areas within which the
Magistrates appointed under section 11 or under section 13 may exercise all or any of the powers with
which they may respectively be invested under this Code:
1[Provided that the Court of Special Judicial Magistrate may hold its sitting at any place within the
local area for which it is established.]
(2) Except as otherwise provided by such definition, the jurisdiction and powers of every such
Magistrate shall extend throughout the district.
2[(3) Where the local jurisdiction of a Magistrate, appointed under section 11 or section 13 or
section 18, extends to an area beyond the district, or the metropolitan area, as the case may be, in which
he ordinarily holds Court, any reference in this Code to the Court of Session, Chief Judicial Magistrate or
the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate shall, in relation to such Magistrate, throughout the area within his
local jurisdiction, be construed, unless the context otherwise requires, as a reference to the Court of
Session, Chief Judicial Magistrate, or Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, exercising
jurisdiction in relation to the said district or metropolitan area.]
15. Subordination of Judicial Magistrates.—(1) Every Chief Judicial Magistrate shall be
subordinate to the Sessions Judge; and every other Judicial Magistrate shall, subject to the general control
of the Sessions Judge, be subordinate to the Chief Judicial Magistrate.
(2) The Chief Judicial Magistrate may, from time to time, make rules or give special orders, consistent
with this Code, as to the distribution of business among the Judicial Magistrates subordinate to him.
16. Courts of Metropolitan Magistrates.—(1) In every metropolitan area, there shall be established
as many Courts of Metropolitan Magistrates, and at such places, as the State Government may, after
consultation with the High Court, by notification, specify.
(2) The presiding officers of such Courts shall be appointed by the High Court.
(3) The jurisdiction and powers of every Metropolitan Magistrate shall extend throughout the
metropolitan area.
17. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate and Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.—(1) The High
Court shall, in relation to every metropolitan area within its local jurisdiction, appoint a Metropolitan
Magistrate to be the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate for such metropolitan area.
(2) The High Court may appoint any Metropolitan Magistrate to be an Additional Chief Metropolitan
Magistrate, and such Magistrate shall have all or any of the powers of a Chief Metropolitan Magistrate
under this Code or under any other law for the time being in force as the High Court may direct.
18. Special Metropolitan Magistrates.—(1) The High Court may, if requested by the Central or State
Government so to do, confer upon any person who holds or has held any post under the Government, all
or any of the powers conferred or conferrable by or under this Code on a Metropolitan Magistrate, in
respect to particular cases or to particular classes of cases 3*** , in any metropolitan area within its local
jurisdiction:
Provided that no such power shall be conferred on a person unless he possesses such qualification or
experience in relation to legal affairs as the High Court may, by rules, specify.
(2) Such Magistrates shall be called Special Metropolitan Magistrates and shall be appointed for such
term, not exceeding one year at a time, as the High Court may, by general or special order, direct.
4[(3) The High Court or the State Government, as the case may be, may empower any Special Metropolitan
1. Added by Act 45 of 1978, s. 5, (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
2. Ins. by s. 5, ibid. (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
3. The words “or to cases generally” omitted by s. 6, ibid., (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
4. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 6, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).