119
had been convicted on a trial held by such Magistrate.
(7) When an order for payment of compensation to an accused person is made in a case which is subject to
appeal under sub-section (6), the compensation shall not be paid to him before the period allowed for the
presentation of the appeal has elapsed, or, if an appeal is presented, before the appeal has been decided; and where
such order is made in a case which is not so subject to appeal the compensation shall not be paid before the
expiration of one month from the date of the order.
(8) The provisions of this section apply to summons-cases as well as to warrant-cases.
CHAPTER XX
TRIAL OF SUMMONS-CASES BY MAGISTRATES
251. Substance of accusation to be stated.—When in a summons-case the accused appears or is brought
before the Magistrate, the particulars of the offence of which he is accused shall be stated to him, and he shall be
asked whether he pleads guilty or has any defence to make, but it shall not be necessary to frame a formal charge.
STATE AMENDMENT
Chhattisgarh
In Section 251 of the Principal Act, after the word “bought before the Magistrate” the following shall be
added :—
“Or appears through the medium of electronic video linkage in the presence of his pleader in the Court”.
[Vide Chhattisgarh Act 13 of 2006, s. 6]
252. Conviction on plea of guilty.—If the accused pleads guilty, the Magistrate shall record the plea as nearly
as possible in the words used by the accused and may, in his discretion, convict him thereon.
253. Conviction on plea of guilty in absence of accused in petty cases.—(1) Where a summons has been
issued under section 206 and the accused desires to plead guilty to the charge without appearing before the
Magistrate, he shall transmit to the Magistrate, by post or by messenger, a letter containing his plea and also the
amount of fine specified in the summons.
(2) The Magistrate may, in his discretion, convict the accused in his absence, on his plea of guilty and sentence
him to pay the fine specified in the summons, and the amount transmitted by the accused shall be adjusted towards
that fine, or where a pleader authorised by the accused in this behalf pleads guilty on behalf of the accused, the
Magistrate shall record the plea as nearly as possible in the words used by the pleader and may, in his discretion,
convict the accused on such plea and sentence him as aforesaid.
254. Procedure when not convicted.—(1) If the Magistrate does not convict the accused under section 252 or
section 253, the Magistrate shall proceed to hear the prosecution and take all such evidence as may be produced in
support of the prosecution, and also to hear the accused and take all such evidence as he produces in his defence.
(2) The Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, on the application of the prosecution or the accused, issue a summons
to any witness directing him to attend or to produce any document or other thing.
(3) The Magistrate may, before summoning any witness on such application, require that the reasonable
expenses of the witness incurred in attending for the purposes of the trial be deposited in Court.
255. Acquittal or conviction.—(1) If the Magistrate, upon taking the evidence referred to in section 254 and
such further evidence, if any, as he may, of his own motion, cause to be produced, finds the accused not guilty, he
shall record an order of acquittal.