122
reasons for the finding.
265. Language of record and judgment.—(1) Every such record and judgment shall be written in the
language of the Court.
(2) The High Court may authorise any Magistrate empowered to try offences summarily to prepare the aforesaid
record or judgment or both by means of an officer appointed in this behalf by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, and the
record or judgment so prepared shall be signed by such Magistrate.
1[CHAPTER XXIA
PLEA BARGAINING
265A. Application of the Chapter.—(1) This Chapter shall apply in respect of an accused against whom—
(a) the report has been forwarded by the officer in charge of the police station under section 173 alleging
therein that an offence appears to have been committed by him other than an offence for which the punishment
of death or of imprisonment for life or of imprisonment for a term exceeding seven years has been provided
under the law for the time being in force; or
(b) a Magistrate has taken cognizance of an offence on complaint, other than an offence for which the
punishment of death or of imprisonment for life or of imprisonment for a term exceeding seven years, has been
provided under the law for the time being in force, and after examining complainant and witnesses under
section 200, issued the process under section 204,
but does not apply where such offence affects the socio-economic condition of the country or has been committed
against a woman, or a child below the age of fourteen years.
(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the Central Government shall, by notification, determine the offences
under the law for the time being in force which shall be the offences affecting the socio-economic condition of the
country.
265B. Application for plea bargaining.—(1) A person accused of an offence may file an application for plea
bargaining in the Court in which such offence is pending for trial.
(2) The application under sub-section (1) shall contain a brief description of the case relating to which the
application is filed including the offence to which the case relates and shall be accompanied by an affidavit sworn by
the accused stating therein that he has voluntarily preferred, after understanding the nature and extent of punishment
provided under the law for the offence, the plea bargaining in his case and that he has not previously been convicted
by a Court in a case in which he had been charged with the same offence.
(3) After receiving the application under sub-section (1), the Court shall issue notice to the Public Prosecutor or
the complainant of the case, as the case may be, and to the accused to appear on the date fixed for the case.
(4) When the Public Prosecutor or the complainant of the case, as the case may be, and the accused appear on
the date fixed under sub-section (3), the Court shall examine the accused in camera, where the other party in the
case shall not be present, to satisfy itself that the accused has filed the application voluntarily and where—
(a) the Court is satisfied that the application has been filed by the accused voluntarily, it shall provide time
to the Public Prosecutor or the complainant of the case, as the case may be, and the accused to work out a
mutually satisfactory disposition of the case which may include giving to the victim by the accused the
compensation and other expenses during the case and thereafter fix the date for further hearing of the case;
(b) the Court finds that the application has been filed involuntarily by the accused or he has previously been
convicted by a Court in a case in which he had been charged with the same offence, it shall proceed further in
1. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, s. 4 (w.e.f. 5-7-2006).