118
(6) The evidence of any remaining witnesses for the prosecution shall next be taken, and after
cross-examination and re-examination (if any), they shall also be discharged.
247. Evidence for defence.—The accused shall then be called upon to enter upon his defence and produce his
evidence; and the provisions of section 243 shall apply to the case.
C.—Conclusion of trial
248. Acquittal or conviction.—(1) If, in any case under this Chapter in which a charge has been framed, the
Magistrate finds the accused not guilty, he shall record an order of acquittal.
(2) Where, in any case under this Chapter, the Magistrate finds the accused guilty, but does not proceed in
accordance with the provisions of section 325 or section 360, he shall, after hearing the accused on the question of
sentence, pass sentence upon him according to law.
(3) Where, in any case under this Chapter, a previous conviction is charged under the provisions of
sub-section (7) of section 211 and the accused does not admit that he has been previously convicted as alleged in the
charge, the Magistrate may, after he has convicted the said accused, take evidence in respect of the alleged previous
conviction, and shall record a finding thereon:
Provided that no such charge shall be read out by the Magistrate nor shall the accused be asked to plead thereto
nor shall the previous conviction be referred to by the prosecution or in any evidence adduced by it, unless and until
the accused has been convicted under sub-section (2).
249. Absence of complainant.—When the proceedings have been instituted upon complaint, and on any day
fixed for the hearing of the case, the complainant is absent, and the offence may be lawfully compounded or is not a
cognizable offence, the Magistrate may, in his discretion, notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, at any
time before the charge has been framed, discharge the accused.
250. Compensation for accusation without reasonable cause.—(1) If, in any case instituted upon complaint
or upon information given to a police officer or to a Magistrate, one or more persons is or are accused before a
Magistrate of any offence triable by a Magistrate, and the Magistrate by whom the case is heard discharges or
acquits all or any of the accused, and is of opinion that there was no reasonable ground for making the accusation
against them or any of them, the Magistrate may, by his order of discharge or acquittal, if the person upon whose
complaint or information the accusation was made is present, call upon him forthwith to show cause why he should
not pay compensation to such accused or to each or any of such accused when there are more than one; or, if such
person is not present, direct the issue of a summons to him to appear and show cause as aforesaid.
(2) The Magistrate shall record and consider any cause which such complainant or informant may show, and if
he is satisfied that there was no reasonable ground for making the accusation, may, for reasons to be recorded, make
an order that compensation to such amount, not exceeding the amount of fine he is empowered to impose, as he may
determine, be paid by such complainant or informant to the accused or to each or any of them.
(3) The Magistrate may, by the order directing payment of the compensation under sub-section (2), further order
that, in default of payment, the person ordered to pay such compensation shall undergo simple imprisonment for a
period not exceeding thirty days.
(4) When any person is imprisoned under sub-section (3), the provisions of sections 68 and 69 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860) shall, so far as may be, apply.
(5) No person who has been directed to pay compensation under this section shall, by reason of such order, be
exempted from any civil or criminal liability in respect of the complaint made or information given by him:
Provided that any amount paid to an accused person under this section shall be taken into account in awarding
compensation to such person in any subsequent civil suit relating to the same matter.
(6) A complainant or informant who has been ordered under sub-section (2) by a Magistrate of the second class
to pay compensation exceeding one hundred rupees, may appeal from the order, as if such complainant or informant