56
1[(3) Every police officer acting under sub-section (1) shall forthwith report the seizure to the
Magistrate having jurisdiction and where the property seized is such that it cannot be conveniently
transported to the Court, 2[or where there is difficulty in securing proper accommodation for the custody
of such property, or where the continued retention of the property in police custody may not be
considered necessary for the purpose of investigation,] he may give custody thereof to any person on his
executing a bond undertaking to produce the property before the Court as and when required and to give
effect to the further orders of the Court as to the disposal of the same:]
3[Provided that where the property seized under sub-section (1) is subject to speedy and natural decay
and if the person entitled to the possession of such property is unknown or absent and the value of such
property is less than five hundred rupees, it may forthwith be sold by auction under the orders of the
Superintendent of Police and the provisions of sections 457 and 458 shall, as nearly as may be
practicable, apply to the net proceeds of such sale.]
103. Magistrate may direct search in his presence.—Any Magistrate may direct a search to be
made in his presence of any place for the search of which he is competent to issue a search-warrant.
104. Power to impound document, etc., produced.—Any Court may, if it thinks fit, impound any
document or thing produced before it under this Code.
105. Reciprocal arrangements regarding processes.—(1) Where a Court in the territories to which
this Code extends (hereafter in this section referred to as the said territories) desires that—
(a) a summons to an accused person, or
(b) a warrant for the arrest of an accused person, or
(c) a summons to any person requiring him to attend and produce a document or other thing, or to
produce it, or
(d) a search-warrant,
4[issued by it shall be served or executed at any place,—
(i) within the local jurisdiction of a Court in any State or area in India outside the said territories,
it may send such summons or warrant in duplicate by post or otherwise, to the presiding officer of
that Court to be served or executed; and where any summons referred to in clause (a) or clause (c) has
been so served, the provisions of section 68 shall apply in relation to such summons as if the
presiding officer of the Court to whom it is sent were a Magistrate in the said territories;
(ii) in any country or place outside India in respect of which arrangements have been made by the
Central Government with the Government of such country or place for service or execution of
summons or warrant in relation to criminal matters (hereafter in this section referred to as the
contracting State), it may send such summons or warrant in duplicate in such form, directed to such
Court, Judge or Magistrate, and send to such authority for transmission, as the Central Government
may, by notification, specify in this behalf.]
(2) Where a Court in the said territories has received for service or execution—
(a) a summons to an accused person, or
(b) a warrant for the arrest of an accused person, or
(c) a summons to any person requiring him to attend and produce a document or other thing, or to
produce it, or
(d) a search-warrant,
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 10 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
2. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 13 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
3. Added by s. 13, ibid., (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
4. Subs. by Act 32 of 1988, s. 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 25-5-1988).