64
119. Commencement of period for which security is required.—(1) If any person, in respect of whom an
order requiring security is made under section 106 or section 117, is at the time such order is made, sentenced to, or
undergoing a sentence of, imprisonment, the period for which such security is required shall commence on the
expiration of such sentence.
(2) In other cases such period shall commence on the date of such order unless the Magistrate, for sufficient
reason, fixes a later date.
120. Contents of bond.—The bond to be executed by any such person shall bind him to keep the peace or to be
of good behaviour, as the case may be, and in the latter case the commission or attempt to commit, or the abetment
of, any offence punishable with imprisonment, wherever it may be committed, is a breach of the bond.
121. Power to reject sureties.—(1) A Magistrate may refuse to accept any surety offered, or may reject any
surety previously accepted by him or his predecessor under this Chapter on the ground that such surety is an unfit
person for the purposes of the bond:
Provided that, before so refusing to accept or rejecting any such surety, he shall either himself hold an inquiry
on oath into the fitness of the surety, or cause such inquiry to be held and a report to be made thereon by a
Magistrate subordinate to him.
(2) Such Magistrate shall, before holding the inquiry, give reasonable notice to the surety and to the person by
whom the surety was offered and shall, in making the inquiry, record the substance of the evidence adduced before
him.
(3) If the Magistrate is satisfied, after considering the evidence so adduced either before him or before a
Magistrate deputed under sub-section (1), and the report of such Magistrate (if any), that the surety is an unfit person
for the purposes of the bond, he shall make an order refusing to accept or rejecting, as the case may be, such surety
and recording his reasons for so doing:
Provided that, before making an order rejecting any surety who has previously been accepted, the Magistrate
shall issue his summons or warrant, as he thinks fit, and cause the person for whom the surety is bound to appear or
to be brought before him.
122. Imprisonment in default of security.—(1) (a) If any person ordered to give security under section 106 or
section 117 does not give such security on or before the date on which the period for which such security is to be
given commences, he shall, except in the case next hereinafter mentioned, be committed to prison, or, if he is
already in prison, be detained in prison until such period expires or until within such period he gives the security to
the Court or Magistrate who made the order requiring it.
(b) If any person after having executed a 1[bond, with or without sureties] without sureties for keeping the peace
in pursuance of an order of a Magistrate under section 117, is proved, to the satisfaction of such Magistrate or his
successor-in-office, to have committed breach of the bond, such Magistrate or successor-in-office may, after
recording the grounds of such proof, order that the person be arrested and detained in prison until the expiry of the
period of the bond and such order shall be without prejudice to any other punishment or forfeiture to which the said
person may be liable in accordance with law.
(2) When such person has been ordered by a Magistrate to give security for a period exceeding one year, such
Magistrate shall, if such person does not give such security as aforesaid, issue a warrant directing him to be detained
in prison pending the orders of the Sessions Judge and the proceedings shall be laid, as soon as conveniently may be,
before such Court.
(3) Such Court, after examining such proceedings and requiring from the Magistrate any further information or
evidence which it thinks necessary, and after giving the concerned person a reasonable opportunity of being heard,
may pass such order on the case as it thinks fit:
Provided that the period (if any) for which any person is imprisoned for failure to give security shall not exceed
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 15, for “bond without sureties” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).