174
409. Withdrawal of cases and appeals by Session Judge.—(1) A Sessions Judge may withdraw any case or
appeal from, or recall any case or appeal which he has made over to, any Assistant Sessions Judge or Chief Judicial
Magistrate subordinate to him.
(2) At any time before the trial of the case or the hearing of the appeal has commenced before the Additional
Sessions Judge, a Sessions Judge may recall any case or appeal which he has made over to any Additional Sessions
Judge.
(3) Where a Sessions Judge withdraws or recalls case or appeal under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), he may
either try the case in his own Court or hear the appeal himself, or make it over in accordance with the provisions of
this Code to another Court for trial or hearing, as the case may be.
STATE AMENDMENT
Kerala
Substitution of new section for section 409. —For section 409 of the principal Act, the following section shall
be substituted, namely:—
409. Appeals to Court of Section how heard.—An appeal to the Court of Session or Sessions Judge shall
be heard by the Sessions Judge or by an Additional Sessions Judge:
Provided that an Additional Sessions Judge shall hear only such appeals as the State Government may, by
general or special order, direct or as the Sessions Judge of the division may make over to him.
[Vide Kerala Act 5 of 1957, s. 4.]
410. Withdrawal of cases by Judicial Magistrate.—(1) Any Chief Judicial Magistrate may withdraw any case
from, or recall any case which he has made over to, any Magistrate subordinate to him, and may inquire into or try
such case himself, or refer it for inquiry or trial to any other such Magistrate competent to inquire into or try the
same.
(2) Any Judicial Magistrate may recall any case made over by him under sub-section (2) of section 192 to any
other Magistrate and may inquire into or try such cases himself.
411. Making over or withdrawal of cases by Executive Magistrates.—Any District Magistrate or
Sub- Divisional Magistrate may—
(a) make over, for disposal, any proceeding which has been started before him, to any Magistrate
subordinate to him;
(b) withdraw any case from, or recall any case which he has made over to, any Magistrate subordinate to
him, and dispose of such proceeding himself or refer it for disposal to any other Magistrate.
412. Reasons to be recorded.—A Sessions Judge or Magistrate making an order under section 408, section
409, section 410 or section 411 shall record his reasons for making it.
CHAPTER XXXII
EXECUTION, SUSPENSION, REMISSION AND COMMUTATION OF SENTENCES
A.—Death Sentences
413. Execution of order passed under section 368.—When in a case submitted to the High Court for the
confirmation of a sentence of death, the Court of Session receives the order of confirmation or other order of the
High Court thereon, it shall cause such order to be carried into effect by issuing a warrant or taking such other steps
as may be necessary.
414. Execution of sentence of death passed by High Court.—When a sentence of death is passed by the High