132
own knowledge and such facts as he has reasonable ground to believe to be true, and in the latter case, the deponent
shall clearly state the grounds of such belief.
(3) The Court may order any scandalous and irrelevant matter in the affidavit to be struck out or amended.
298. Previous conviction or acquittal how proved.—In any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code,
a previous conviction or acquittal may be proved, in addition to any other mode provided by any law for the time
being in force,—
(a) by an extract certified under the hand of the officer having the custody of the records of the Court in
which such conviction or acquittal was held, to be a copy of the sentence or order, or
(b) in case of a conviction, either by a certificate signed by the officer in charge of the Jail in which the
punishment or any part thereof was undergone, or by production of the warrant of commitment under which the
punishment was suffered,
together with, in each of such cases, evidence as to the identity of the accused person with the person so convicted or
acquitted.
299. Record of evidence in absence of accused.—(1) If it is proved that an accused person has absconded, and
that there is no immediate prospect of arresting him, the Court competent to try 1[, or commit for trial,] such person
for the offence complained of may, in his absence, examine the witnesses (if any) produced on behalf of the
prosecution, and record their depositions and any such deposition may, on the arrest of such person, be given in
evidence against him on the inquiry into, or trial for, the offence with which he is charged, if the deponent is dead or
incapable of giving evidence or cannot be found or his presence cannot be procured without an amount of delay,
expense or inconvenience which, under the circumstances of the case, would be unreasonable.
(2) If it appears that an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life has been committed by some
person or persons unknown, the High Court or the Sessions Judge may direct that any Magistrate of the first class
shall hold an inquiry and examine any witnesses who can give evidence concerning the offence and any depositions
so taken may be given in evidence against any person who is subsequently accused of the offence, if the deponent is
dead or incapable of giving evidence or beyond the limits of India.
CHAPTER XXIV
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO INQUIRIES AND TRIALS
300. Person once convicted or acquitted not to be tried for same offence.—(1) A person who has once been
tried by a Court of competent jurisdiction for an offence and convicted or acquitted of such offence shall, while such
conviction or acquittal remains in force, not be liable to be tried again for the same offence, nor on the same facts for
any other offence for which a different charge from the one made against him might have been made under
sub-section (1) of section 221, or for which he might have been convicted under sub-section (2) thereof.
(2) A person acquitted or convicted of any offence may be afterwards tried, with the consent of the State
Government, for any distinct offence for which a separate charge might have been made against him at the former
trial under sub-section (1) of section 220.
(3) A person convicted of any offence constituted by any act causing consequences which, together with such
act, constituted a different offence from that of which he was convicted, may be afterwards tried for such last
mentioned offence, if the consequences had not happened, or were not known to the Court to have happened, at the
time when he was convicted.
(4) A person acquitted convicted of any offence constituted by any acts may, notwithstanding such acquittal or
conviction, be subsequently charged with, and tried for, any other offence constituted by the same acts which he
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 23 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).