38
subordinate to it.
(2) Any powers conferred by the Chief Judicial Magistrate or by the District Magistrate may be
withdrawn by the respective Magistrate by whom such powers were conferred.
35. Powers of Judges and Magistrates exercisable by their successors-in-office.—(1) Subject to
the other provisions of this Code, the powers and duties of a Judge or Magistrate may be exercised or
performed by his successor-in-office.
(2) When there is any doubt as to who is the successor-in-office of any Additional or Assistant
Sessions Judge, the Sessions Judge shall determine by order in writing the Judge who shall, for the
purposes of this Code or of any proceedings or order thereunder, be deemed to be the successor-in-office
of such Additional or Assistant Sessions Judge.
(3) When there is any doubt as to who is the successor-in-office of any Magistrate, the Chief Judicial
Magistrate, or the District Magistrate, as the case may be, shall determine by order in writing the
Magistrate who shall, for the purpose of this Code or of any proceedings or order thereunder, be deemed
to be the successor-in-office of such Magistrate.
CHAPTER IV
A.—POWERS OF SUPERIOR OFFICERS OF POLICE
36. Powers of superior officers of police.—Police officers superior in rank to an officer in charge of
a police station may exercise the same powers, throughout the local area to which they are appointed, as
may be exercised by such officer within the limits of his station.
B.—AID TO THE MAGISTRATES AND THE POLICE
37. Public when to assist Magistrates and police.—Every person is bound to assist a Magistrate or
police officer reasonably demanding his aid—
(a) in the taking or preventing the escape of any other person whom such Magistrate or police
officer is authorised to arrest; or
(b) in the prevention or suppression of a breach of the peace; or
(c) in the prevention of any injury attempted to be committed to any railway, canal, telegraph or
public property.
38. Aid to person, other than police officer, executing warrant.—When a warrant is directed to a
person other than a police officer, any other person may aid in the execution of such warrant, if the person
to whom the warrant is directed be near at hand and acting in the execution of the warrant.
39. Public to give information of certain offences.—(1) Every person, aware of the commission of,
or of the intention of any other person to commit, any offence punishable under any of the following
sections of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), namely:—
(i) sections 121 to 126, both inclusive, and section 130 (that is to say, offences against the State specified
in Chapter VI of the said Code);
(ii) sections 143, 144, 145, 147 and 148 (that is to say, offences against the public tranquillity
specified in Chapter VIII of the said Code);
(iii) sections 161 to 165A, both inclusive (that is to say, offences relating to illegal
gratification);
(iv) sections 272 to 278, both inclusive (that is to say, offences relating to adulteration of food
and drugs, etc.);
(v) sections 302, 303 and 304 (that is to say, offences affecting life);
1[(va) section 364A (that is to say, offence relating to kidnapping for ransom, etc.);]
1. Ins. by Act 42 of 1993, s. 3 (w.e.f. 22-05-1993).