139
(b) his failure to give evidence shall not be made the subject of any comment by any of the parties or the
Court or give rise to any presumption against himself or any person charged together with him that the same
trial.
(2) Any person against whom proceedings are instituted in any Criminal Court under section 98, or section 107
or section 108, or section 109, or section 110, or under Chapter IX or under Part B, Part C or Part D of Chapter X,
may offer himself as a witness in such proceedings:
Provided that in proceedings under section 108, section 109, or section 110, the failure of such person to give
evidence shall not be made the subject of any comment by any of the parties or the Court or give rise to any
presumption against him or any other person proceeded against together with him at the same inquiry.
316. No influence to be used to induce disclosure.—Except as provided in sections 306 and 307, no influence,
by means of any promise or threat or otherwise, shall be used to an accused person to induce him to disclose or
withhold any matter within his knowledge.
317. Provision for inquiries and trial being held in the absence of accused in certain cases.—(1) At any
stage of an inquiry or trial under this Code, if the Judge or Magistrate is satisfied, for reasons to be recorded, that the
personal attendance of the accused before the Court is not necessary in the interests of justice, or that the accused
persistently disturbs the proceedings in Court, the Judge or Magistrate may, if the accused is represented by a
pleader, dispense with his attendance and proceed with such inquiry or trial in his absence, and may, at any
subsequent stage of the proceedings, direct the personal attendance of such accused.
(2) If the accused in any such case is not represented by a pleader, or if the Judge or Magistrate considers his
personal attendance necessary, he may, if he thinks fit and for reasons to be recorded by him, either adjourn such
inquiry or trial, or order that the case of such accused be taken up or tried separately.
STATE AMENDMENT
Gujarat
In the principal Act, to section 317, the following Explanation shall be added, namely: —
“Explanation: —For the purpose of this section “Personal attendance of the accused” shall include his
attendance through the medium of Electronic Video Linkage as provided in section 273.”.
[Vide Gujarat Act 31 of 2017, s. 6.]
318. Procedure where accused does not understand proceedings.—If the accused, though not of unsound
mind, cannot be made to understand the proceedings, the Court may proceed with the inquiry or trial; and, in the
case of a Court other than a High Court, if such proceedings result in a conviction, the proceedings shall be
forwarded to the High Court with a report of the circumstances of the case, and the High Court shall pass thereon
such order as it thinks fit.
319. Power to proceed against other persons appearing to be guilty of offence.—(1) Where, in the course of
any inquiry into, or trial of, an offence, it appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has
committed any offence for which such person could be tried together with the accused, the Court may proceed
against such person for the offence which he appears to have committed.
(2) Where such person is not attending the Court, he may be arrested or summoned, as the circumstances of the
case may require, for the purpose aforesaid.
(3) Any person attending the Court, although not under arrest or upon a summons, may be detained by such
Court for the purpose of the inquiry into, or trial of, the offence which he appears to have committed.
(4) Where the Court proceeds against any person under sub-section (1), then—
(a) the proceedings in respect of such person shall be commenced afresh, and the witnesses re-heard;