35
shall be subordinate to the Director of Prosecution and Government litigations and every Public Prosecutor,
Additional Prosecutor and Special Prosecutor appointed under sub-section (8) of section 24 shall be
subordinate to the Advocate General.”
(c) in sub-section (6), for the words “Deputy Director of Prosecution, the words “Director of Prosecution”
shall be substituted.
[Vide Karnataka Act 39 of 2012, s. 2]
Madhya Pradesh
Substitution of Section 25A.—For section 25A of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely: —
“25A. Directorate of Prosecution.—(1) The State Government may establish a Directorate of
Prosecution consisting of a Director of Prosecution and as many Additional Directors of Prosecution,
Joint Directors of Prosecution, Deputy Directors of Prosecution and Assistant Directors of Prosecution
and such other posts as it thinks fit.
(2) The post of Director of Prosecution, Additional Directors of Prosecution, Joint Directors of
Prosecution, Deputy Directors of Prosecution and Assistant Directors of Prosecution and other post shall
be filled in accordance with the Madhya Pradesh Public Prosecution (Gazetted) Service Recruitment
Rules, 1991, as amended from time to time.
(3) The head of the Directorate of Prosecution shall be the Director of Prosecution, who shall function
under the administrative control of the head of the Home Department in the State.
(4) Every Additional Director of Prosecution, Joint Director of Prosecution, Deputy Director of
Prosecution and Assistant Director of Prosecution and other posts specified in sub-section (2) shall be
subordinate to the Director of Prosecution.
(5) Every Public Prosecutor and Additional Public Prosecutor appointed under the Madhya Pradesh
Public Prosecution (Gazetted) Service Recruitment Rules, 1991, shall be subordinate to the Director of
Prosecution and every Public Prosecutor and Additional Public Prosecutor appointed under
sub-section (1) of Section 24 and every Special Public Prosecutor appointed under sub-section (8) of
Section 24 to conduct cases in the High Court shall be subordinate to the Advocate General.
(6) Every Public Prosecutor and Additional Public Prosecutor appointed under sub-section (3) of
Section 24 and every Special Public Prosecutor appointed under sub-section (8) of Section 24 to conduct
cases in District Courts shall be subordinate to the District Magistrate.
(7) The powers and functions of the Director of Prosecution shall be such as the State Government
may, by notification, specify.”.
[Vide Madhya Pradesh Act 18 of 2014, s. 3.]
STATE AMENDMENT
Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh (UTs).—
Section 25A.-(i) for sub-sections (1) and (2), substitute–
(1) The Government of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall establish a Directorate of
Prosecution consisting of a Director General of Prosecution and such other officers, as may be
provided in rules to be framed by the said Government; and
(2) The Post of Director General of Prosecution and all other officers, constituting the prosecution
cadre, shall be filled in accordance with the rules to be framed by the said Government.
(ii) in sub-section (3), substitute “Director of Prosecution” with “Director General of
Prosecution”;