146
prosecution and the Court shall, before according consent, direct the Prosecutor to produce before it the permission
granted by the Central Government to withdraw from the prosecution.
322. Procedure in cases which Magistrate cannot dispose of.—(1) If, in the course of any inquiry into an
offence or a trial before a Magistrate in any district, the evidence appears to him to warrant a presumption—
(a) that he has no jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, or
(b) that the case is one which should be tried or committed for trial by some other Magistrate in the district,
or
(c) that the case should be tried by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, he shall stay the proceedings and submit
the case, with a brief report explaining its nature, to the Chief Judicial Magistrate or to such other Magistrate,
having jurisdiction, as the Chief Judicial Magistrate directs.
(2) The Magistrate to whom the case is submitted may, if so empowered, either try the case himself, or refer it
to any Magistrate subordinate to him having jurisdiction, or commit the accused for trial.
323. Procedure when, after commencement of inquiry or trial, Magistrate finds case should be
committed.—If, in any inquiry into an offence or a trial before a Magistrate, it appears to him at any stage of the
proceedings before signing the judgment that the case is one which ought to be tried by the Court of Session, he
shall commit it to that Court under the provisions hereinbefore contained 1[and thereupon the provisions of Chapter
XVIII shall apply to the commitment so made].
324. Trial of persons previously convicted of offences against coinage, stamp-law or property.— (1)
Where a person, having been convicted of an offence punishable under Chapter XII or Chapter XVII of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860), with imprisonment for a term of three years or upwards, is again accused of any offence
punishable under either of those Chapters with imprisonment for a term of three years or upwards, and the
Magistrate before whom the case is pending is satisfied that there is ground for presuming that such person has
committed the offence, he shall be sent for trial to the Chief Judicial Magistrate or committed to the Court of
Session, unless the Magistrate is competent to try the case and is of opinion that he can himself pass an adequate
sentence if the accused is convicted.
(2) When any person is sent for trial to the Chief Judicial Magistrate or committed to the Court of Session
under sub-section (1), any other person accused jointly with him in the same inquiry or trial shall be similarly sent or
committed, unless the Magistrate discharges such other person under section 239 or section 245, as the case may be.
325. Procedure when Magistrate cannot pass sentence sufficiently severe.—(1) Whenever a Magistrate is of
opinion, after hearing the evidence for the prosecution and the accused, that the accused is guilty, and that he ought
to receive a punishment different in kind from, or more severe than, that which such Magistrate is empowered to
inflict, or, being a Magistrate of the second class, is of opinion that the accused ought to be required to execute a
bond under section 106, he may record the opinion and submit his proceedings, and forward the accused, to the
Chief Judicial Magistrate to whom he is subordinate.
(2) When more accused than one are being tried together, and the Magistrate considers it necessary to proceed
under sub-section (1), in regard to any of such accused, he shall forward all the accused, who are in his opinion
guilty, to the Chief Judicial Magistrate.
1. Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 26 (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).