42
of such officer, to give his name and residence or gives a name or residence which such officer has reason to
believe to be false, he may be arrested by such officer in order that his name or residence may be ascertained.
(2) When the true name and residence of such person have been ascertained, he shall be released on his
executing a bond, with or without sureties, to appear before a Magistrate if so required:
Provided that, if such person is not resident in India, the bond shall be secured by a surety or sureties
resident in India.
(3) Should the true name and residence of such person not be ascertained within twenty-four hours from
the time of arrest or should he fail to execute the bond, or, if so required, to furnish sufficient sureties, he shall
forthwith be forwarded to the nearest Magistrate having jurisdiction.
43. Arrest by private person and procedure on such arrest.—(1) Any private person may arrest or
cause to be arrested any person who in his presence commits a non-bailable and cognizable offence, or any
proclaimed offender, and, without unnecessary delay, shall make over or cause to be made over any person so
arrested to a police officer, or, in the absence of a police officer, take such person or cause him to be taken in
custody to the nearest police station.
(2) If there is reason to believe that such person comes under the provisions of section 41, a police officer
shall re-arrest him.
(3) If there is reason to believe that he has committed a non-cognizable offence, and he refuses on the
demand of a police officer to give his name and residence, or gives a name or residence which such officer has
reason to believe to be false, he shall be dealt with under the provisions of section 42; but if there is no
sufficient reason to believe that he has committed any offence, he shall be at once released.
44. Arrest by Magistrate.—(1) When any offence is committed in the presence of a Magistrate, whether
Executive or Judicial, within his local jurisdiction, he may himself arrest or order any person to arrest the
offender, and may thereupon, subject to the provisions herein contained as to bail, commit the offender to
custody.
(2) Any Magistrate, whether Executive or Judicial, may at any time arrest or direct the arrest, in his
presence, within his local jurisdiction, of any person for whose arrest he is competent at the time and in the
circumstances to issue a warrant.
45. Protection of members of the Armed Forces from arrest.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained
in sections 41 to 44 (both inclusive), no member of the Armed Forces of the Union shall be arrested for
anything done or purported to be done by him in the discharge of his official duties except after obtaining the
consent of the Central Government.
(2) The State Government may, by notification, direct that the provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply to
such class or category of the members of the Force charged with the maintenance of public order as may be
specified therein, wherever they may be serving, and thereupon the provisions of that sub-section shall apply as if
for the expression “Central Government” occurring therein, the expression “State Government” were substituted.
46. Arrest how made.—(1) In making an arrest the police officer or other person making the same shall
actually touch or confine the body of the person to be arrested, unless there be a submission to the custody by
word or action:
1[Provided that where a woman is to be arrested, unless the circumstances indicate to the contrary, her
submission to custody on an oral intimation of arrest shall be presumed and, unless the circumstances
otherwise require or unless the police officer is a female, the police officer shall not touch the person of the
woman for making her arrest.]
(2) If such person forcibly resists the endeavour to arrest him, or attempts to evade the arrest, such police
officer or other person may use all means necessary to effect the arrest.
(3) Nothing in this section gives a right to cause the death of a person who is not accused of an offence
punishable with death or with imprisonment for life.
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 7 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).