30
Magistrate to exercise, in any local area outside the metropolitan area, the powers of a Judicial Magistrate of the first
class.]
19. Subordination of Metropolitan Magistrates.—(1) The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate and every
Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate shall be subordinate to the Sessions Judge; and every other
Metropolitan Magistrate shall, subject to the general control of the Sessions Judge, be subordinate to the
Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.
(2) The High Court may, for the purposes of this Code, define the extent of the subordination, if any,
of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrates to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.
(3) The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate may, from time to time, make rules or give special orders,
consistent with this Code, as to the distribution of business among the Metropolitan Magistrates and as to
the allocation of business to an Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate.
20. Executive Magistrates.—(1) In every district and in every metropolitan area, the State
Government may appoint as many persons as it thinks fit to be Executive Magistrates and shall appoint
one of them to be the District Magistrate.
(2) The State Government may appoint any Executive Magistrate to be an Additional District
Magistrate, and such Magistrate shall have 1[such] of the powers of a District Magistrate under this Code
or under any other law for the time being in force 2[as may be directed by the State Government].
(3) Whenever, in consequence of the office of a District Magistrate becoming vacant, any officer
succeeds temporarily to the executive administration of the district, such officer shall, pending the orders
of the State Government, exercise all the powers and perform all the duties respectively conferred and
imposed by this Code on the District Magistrate.
(4) The State Government may place an Executive Magistrate in charge of a sub-division and may
relieve him of the charge as occasion requires; and the Magistrate so placed in charge of a sub-division
shall be called the Sub-divisional Magistrate.
3[(4A) The State Government may, by general or special order and subject to such control and
directions as it may deem fit to impose, delegate its powers under sub-section (4) to the District
Magistrate.]
(5) Nothing in this section shall preclude the State Government from conferring, under any law for
the time being in force, on a Commissioner of Police, all or any of the powers of an Executive Magistrate
in relation to a metropolitan area.
21. Special Executive Magistrates.—The State Government may appoint, for such term as it may
think fit, Executive Magistrates, to be known as Special Executive Magistrates, for particular areas or for
the performance of particular functions and confer on such Special Executive Magistrates such of the
powers as are conferrable under this Code on Executive Magistrates, as it may deem fit.
22. Local Jurisdiction of Executive Magistrates.—(1) Subject to the control of the State
Government, the District Magistrate may, from time to time, define the local limits of the areas within
which the Executive Magistrates may exercise all or any of the powers with which they may be invested
under this Code.
(2) Except as otherwise provided by such definition, the jurisdiction and powers of every such
Magistrate shall extend throughout the district.
23. Subordination of Executive Magistrates.—(1) All Executive Magistrates, other than the
Additional District Magistrate, shall be subordinate to the District Magistrate, and every Executive
Magistrate (other than the Sub-divisional Magistrate) exercising powers in a sub-division shall also be
subordinate to the Sub-divisional Magistrate, subject, however, to the general control of the District
Magistrate.
(2) The District Magistrate may, from time to time, make rules or give special orders, consistent with
1. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 7, for “all or any” (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
2. Ins. by s. 7, ibid, (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).
3. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 2 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).