41
(i) for whose arrest any requisition, whether written or oral, has been received from another
police officer, provided that the requisition specifies the person to be arrested and the offence or other
cause for which the arrest is to be made and it appears therefrom that the person might lawfully be
arrested without a warrant by the officer who issued the requisition.
1[(2) Subject to the provisions of section 42, no person concerned in a non-cognizable offence or
against whom a complaint has been made or credible information has been received or reasonable
suspicion exists of his having so concerned, shall be arrested except under a warrant or order of a
Magistrate.]
2[41A. Notice of appearance before police officer.—(1) 3[The police officer shall], in all cases
where the arrest of a person is not required under the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 41, issue a
notice directing the person against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information
has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence, to appear
before him or at such other place as may be specified in the notice.
(2) Where such a notice is issued to any person, it shall be the duty of that person to comply with the
terms of the notice.
(3) Where such person complies and continues to comply with the notice, he shall not be arrested in
respect of the offence referred to in the notice unless, for reasons to be recorded, the police officer is of
the opinion that he ought to be arrested.
4[(4) Where such person, at any time, fails to comply with the terms of the notice or is unwilling to
identify himself, the police officer may, subject to such orders as may have been passed by a competent
Court in this behalf, arrest him for the offence mentioned in the notice.]
41B. Procedure of arrest and duties of officer making arrest.—Every police officer while making
an arrest shall—
(a) bear an accurate, visible and clear identification of his name which will facilitate easy
identification;
(b) prepare a memorandum of arrest which shall be—
(i) attested by at least one witness, who is a member of the family of the person arrested or a
respectable member of the locality where the arrest is made;
(ii) countersigned by the person arrested; and
(c) inform the person arrested, unless the memorandum is attested by a member of his family, that
he has a right to have a relative or a friend named by him to be informed of his arrest.
41C. Control room at districts.—(1) The State Government shall establish a police control room—
(a) in every district; and
(b) at State level.
(2) The State Government shall cause to be displayed on the notice board kept outside the control rooms at
every district, the names and addresses of the persons arrested and the name and designation of the police
officers who made the arrests.
(3) The control room at the Police Headquarters at the State level shall collect from time to time, details
about the persons arrested, nature of the offence with which they are charged and maintain a database for the
information of the general public.
41D. Right of arrested person to meet an advocate of his choice during interrogation.—When any
person is arrested and interrogated by the police, he shall be entitled to meet an advocate of his choice during
interrogation, though not throughout interrogation.]
42. Arrest on refusal to give name and residence.—(1) When any person who, in the presence of a
police officer, has committed or has been accused of committing a non-cognizable offence refuses, on demand
1. Subs. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 5, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 1-11-2010).
2. Ins. by s. 6, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-11-2010).
3. Subs. by Act 41 of 2010, s. 3, for “The police officer may” (w.e.f. 2-11-2010).
4. Subs. by s. 3, ibid., for sub-section (4) (w.e.f. 2-11-2010).