154
does not, after a reasonable opportunity has been given to him so to do, offer any reasonable excuse for such refusal,
such Court may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, sentence him to simple imprisonment, or by warrant under the
hand of the Presiding Magistrate or Judge commit him to the custody of an officer of the Court for any term not
exceeding seven days, unless in the meantime, such person consents to be examined and to answer, or to produce the
document or thing and in the event of his persisting in his refusal, he may be dealt with according to the provisions
of section 345 or section 346.
350. Summary procedure for punishment for non-attendance by a witness in obedience to summons.—(1)
If any witness being summoned to appear before a Criminal Court is legally bound to appear at a certain place and
time in obedience to the summons and without just excuse neglects or refuses to attend at that place or time or
departs from the place where he has to attend before the time at which it is lawful for him to depart, and the Court
before which the witness is to appear is satisfied that it is expedient in the interest of justice that such a witness
should be tried summarily, the Court may take cognizance of the offence and after giving the offender an
opportunity of showing cause why he should not be punished under this section, sentence him to fine not exceeding
one hundred rupees.
(2) In every such case the Court shall follow, as nearly as may be practicable, the procedure prescribed for
summary trials.
351. Appeals from convictions under sections 344, 345, 349 and 350.—(1) Any person sentenced by any
Court other than a High Court under section 344, section 345, section 349, or section 350 may, notwithstanding
anything contained in this Code appeal to the Court to which decrees or orders made in such Court are ordinarily
appealable.
(2) The provisions of Chapter XXIX shall, so far as they are applicable, apply to appeals under this section, and
the Appellate Court may alter or reverse the finding, or reduce or reverse the sentence appealed against.
(3) An appeal from such conviction by a Court of Small Causes shall lie to the Court of Session for the sessions
division within which such Court is situate.
(4) An appeal from such conviction by any Registrar or Sub-Registrar deemed to be a Civil Court by virtue of a
direction issued under section 347 shall lie to the Court of Session for the sessions division within which the office
of such Registrar or Sub-Registrar is situate.
352. Certain Judges and Magistrates not to try certain offences when committed before themselves.—
Except as provided in sections 344, 345, 349 and 350, no Judge of a Criminal Court (other than a Judge of a High
Court) or Magistrate shall try any person for any offence referred to in section 195, when such offence is committed
before himself or in contempt of his authority, or is brought under his notice as such Judge or Magistrate in the
course of a judicial proceeding.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE JUDGMENT
353. Judgment.—(1) The judgment in every trial in any Criminal Court or original jurisdiction shall be
pronounced in open Court by the presiding officer immediately after the termination of the trial or at some
subsequent time of which notice shall be given to the parties or their pleaders,—
(a) by delivering the whole of the judgment; or
(b) by reading out the whole of the judgment; or
(c) by reading out the operative part of the judgment and explaining the substance of the judgment in a
language which is understood by the accused or his pleader.
(2) Where the judgment is delivered under clause (a) of sub-section (1), the presiding officer shall cause it to be
taken down in short-hand, sign the transcript and every page thereof as soon as it is made ready, and write on it the
date of the delivery of the judgment in open Court.