117
before entering on his defence, the attendance of such witness shall not be compelled under this section, unless the
Magistrate is satisfied that it is necessary for the ends of justice.
(3) The Magistrate may, before summoning any witness on an application under sub-section (2), require that the
reasonable expenses incurred by the witness in attending for the purposes of the trial be deposited in Court.
B.—Cases instituted otherwise than on police report
244. Evidence for prosecution.—(1) When, in any warrant-case instituted otherwise than on a police report,
the accused appears or is brought before a Magistrate, the Magistrate shall proceed to hear the prosecution and take
all such evidence as may be produced in support of the prosecution.
(2) The Magistrate may, on the application of the prosecution, issue a summons to any of its witnesses directing
him to attend or to produce any document or other thing.
245. When accused shall be discharged.—(1) If, upon taking all the evidence referred to in section 244, the
Magistrate considers, for reasons to be recorded, that no case against the accused has been made out which, if
unrebutted, would warrant his conviction, the Magistrate shall discharge him.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent a Magistrate from discharging the accused at any
previous stage of the case if, for reasons to be recorded by such Magistrate, he considers the charge to be groundless.
STATE AMENDMENT
West Bengal
In section 245 of the principal Act, after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be inserted: —
“(3) If all the evidence referred to in section 244 are not produced in support of the prosecution
within four years from the date of appearance of the accused, the Magistrate shall discharge the accused
unless the prosecution satisfies the Magistrate that upon the evidence already produced and for special
reasons there is ground for presuming that it shall not be in the interest of justice to discharge the
accused.”.
[Vide West Bengal Act 24 of 1988, s. 5.]
246. Procedure where accused is not discharged.—(1) If, when such evidence has been taken, or at any
previous stage of the case, the Magistrate is of opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has
committed an offence triable under this Chapter, which such Magistrate is competent to try and which, in his
opinion, could be adequately punished by him, he shall frame in writing a charge against the accused.
(2) The charge shall then be read and explained to the accused, and he shall be asked whether he pleads guilty
or has any defence to make.
(3) If the accused pleads guilty, the Magistrate shall record the plea, and may, in his discretion, convict him
thereon.
(4) If the accused refuses to plead, or does not plead or claims to be tried or if the accused is not convicted
under sub-section (3), he shall be required to state, at the commencement of the next hearing of the case, or, if the
Magistrate for reasons to be recorded in writing so thinks fit, forthwith, whether he wishes to cross-examine any,
and, if so, which, of the witnesses for the prosecution whose evidence has been taken.
(5) If he says he does so wish, the witnesses named by him shall be recalled and, after cross-examination and
re-examination (if any), they shall be discharged.