113
(f) persons accused of offences under sections 411 and 414 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)
or either of those sections in respect of stolen property the possession of which has been transferred
by one offence;
(g) persons accused of any offence under Chapter XII of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)
relating to counterfeit coin and persons accused of any other offence under the said Chapter relating
to the same coin, or of abetment of or attempting to commit any such offence; and the provisions
contained in the former part of this Chapter shall, so far as may be, apply to all such charges:
Provided that where a number of persons are charged with separate offences and such persons do not
fall within any of the categories specified in this section, the 1[Magistrate or Court of Session] may, if
such persons by an application in writing, so desire, and 2[if he or it is satisfied] that such persons would
not be prejudicially affected thereby, and it is expedient so to do, try all such persons together.
224. Withdrawal of remaining charges on conviction on one of several charges.—When a charge
containing more heads than one is framed against the same person, and when a conviction has been had
on one or more of them, the complainant, or the officer conducting the prosecution, may, with the consent
of the Court, withdraw the remaining charge or charges, or the Court of its own accord may stay the
inquiry into, or trial of, such charge or charges and such withdrawal shall have the effect of an acquittal
on such charge or charges, unless the conviction be set aside, in which case the said Court (subject to the
order of the Court setting aside the conviction) may proceed with the inquiry into, or trial of, the charge or
charges so withdrawn.
CHAPTER XVIII
TRIAL BEFORE A COURT OF SESSION
225. Trial to be conducted by Public Prosecutor.—In every trial before a Court of Session, the
prosecution shall be conducted by a Public Prosecutor.
226. Opening case for prosecution.—When the accused appears or is brought before the Court in
pursuance of a commitment of the case under section 209, the prosecutor shall open his case by
describing the charge brought against the accused and stating by what evidence he proposes to prove the
guilt of the accused.
227. Discharge.—If, upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents submitted
therewith, and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, the Judge
considers that there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, he shall discharge the
accused and record his reasons for so doing.
228. Framing of charge.—(1) If, after such consideration and hearing as aforesaid, the Judge is of
opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed an offence which—
(a) is not exclusively triable by the Court of Session, he may, frame a charge against the accused
and, by order, transfer the case for trial to the Chief Judicial Magistrate, 3[or any other Judicial
Magistrate of the first class and direct the accused to appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, or,
as the case may be, the Judicial Magistrate of the first class, on such date as he deems fit, and
thereupon such Magistrate] shall try the offence in accordance with the procedure for the trial of
1. Subs. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 21, for “Magistrate” (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Subs. by s. 21, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
3. Subs. by s. 22, ibid., for certain words (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).