106
section 173;
(iv) the confessions and statements, if any, recorded under section 164;
(v) any other document or relevant extract thereof forwarded to the Magistrate with the police
report under sub-section (5) of section 173:
Provided that the Magistrate may, after perusing any such part of a statement as is referred to in
clause (iii) and considering the reasons given by the police officer for the request, direct that a copy
of that part of the statement or of such portion thereof as the Magistrate thinks proper, shall be
furnished to the accused:
Provided further that if the Magistrate is satisfied that any document referred to in clause (v) is
voluminous, he shall, instead of furnishing the accused with a copy thereof, direct that he will only
be allowed to inspect it either personally or through pleader in Court.
208. Supply of copies of statements and documents to accused in other cases triable by
Court of Session.—Where, in a case instituted otherwise than on a police report, it appears to the
Magistrate issuing process under section 204 that the offence is triable exclusively by the Court of
Session, the Magistrate shall without delay furnish to the accused, free of cost, a copy of each of the
following:—
(i) the statements recorded under section 200 or section 202, of all persons examined by the
Magistrate;
(ii) the statements and confessions, if any, recorded under section 161 or section 164;
(iii) any documents produced before the Magistrate on which the prosecution proposes to
rely:
Provided that if the Magistrate is satisfied that any such document is voluminous, he shall, instead
of furnishing the accused with a copy thereof, direct that he will only be allowed to inspect it either
personally or through pleader in Court.
209. Commitment of case to Court of Session when offence is triable exclusively by it.—When in
a case instituted on a police report or otherwise, the accused appears or is brought before the Magistrate
and it appears to the Magistrate that the offence is triable exclusively by the Court of Session, he shall—
1[(a) commit, after complying with the provisions of section 207 or section 208, as the case may
be, the case to the Court of Session, and subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand
the accused to custody until such commitment has been made;]
(b) subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand the accused to custody during,
and until the conclusion of, the trial;
(c) send to that Court the record of the case and the documents and articles, if any, which are to
be produced in evidence;
(d) notify the Public Prosecutor of the commitment of the case to the Court of Session.
STATE AMENDMENT
Gujarat
In section 209 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, in its application to the State of Gujarat, for
clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
“(a) Commit the case, after complying with the provisions of section 207 or section 208, as the case
may be, to the Court of Session and, subject to the provisions of this Code relating to bail, remand the accused
to custody until such commitment has been made”.
[Vide Gujarat Act 30 of 1976, s. 2]
210. Procedure to be followed when there is a complaint case and police investigation in respect
of the same offence.—(1) When in a case instituted otherwise than on a police report (hereinafter
referred to as a complaint case), it is made to appear to the Magistrate, during the course of the inquiry or
trial held by him, that an investigation by the police is in progress in relation to the offence which is the
subject-matter of the inquiry or trial held by him, the Magistrate shall stay the proceedings of such inquiry
or trial and call for a report on the matter from the police officer conducting the investigation.
(2) If a report is made by the investigating police officer under section 173 and on such report
1. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 19, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).