59
(2) The Administrator appointed under sub-section (1) shall receive and manage the property in
relation to which the order has been made under sub-section (1) of section 105E or under section 105H in
such manner and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Central Government.
(3) The Administrator shall also take such measures, as the Central Government may direct, to
dispose of the property which is forfeited to the Central Government.
105G. Notice of forfeiture of property.—(1) If as a result of the inquiry, investigation or survey
under section 105D, the Court has reason to believe that all or any of such properties are proceeds of
crime, it may serve a notice upon such person (hereinafter referred to as the person affected) calling upon
him within a period of thirty days specified in the notice to indicate the source of income, earnings or
assets, out of which or by means of which he has acquired such property, the evidence on which he relies
and other relevant information and particulars, and to show cause why all or any of such properties, as the
case may be, should not be declared to be proceeds of crime and forfeited to the Central Government.
(2) Where a notice under sub-section (1) to any person specifies any property as being held on behalf
of such person by any other person, a copy of the notice shall also be served upon such other person.
105H. Forfeiture of property in certain cases.—(1) The Court may, after considering the
explanation, if any, to the show-cause notice issued under section 105G and the material available
before it and after giving to the person affected (and in a case where the person affected holds any
property specified in the notice through any other person, to such other person also) a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, by order, record a finding whether all or any of the properties in question
are proceeds of crime:
Provided that if the person affected (and in a case where the person affected holds any property
specified in the notice through any other person such other person also) does not appear before the
Court or represent his case before it within a period of thirty days specified in the show-cause notice,
the Court may proceed to record a finding under this sub-section ex parte on the basis of evidence
available before it.
(2) Where the Court is satisfied that some of the properties referred to in the show-cause notice
are proceeds of crime but it is not possible to identify specifically such properties, then, it shall be
lawful for the Court to specify the properties which, to the best of its judgment, are proceeds of crime
and record a finding accordingly under sub-section (1).
(3) Where the Court records a finding under this section to the effect that any property is
proceeds of crime, such property shall stand forfeited to the Central Government free from all
encumbrances.
(4) Where any shares in a company stand forfeited to the Central Government under this section,
then, the company shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)
or the articles of association of the company, forthwith register the Central Government as the
transferee of such shares.
105-I. Fine in lieu of forfeiture.—(1) Where the Court makes a declaration that any property
stands forfeited to the Central Government under section 105H and it is a case where the source of
only a part of such property has not been proved to the satisfaction of the Court, it shall make an
order giving an option to the person affected to pay, in lieu of forfeiture, a fine equal to the market
value of such part.
(2) Before making an order imposing a fine under sub-section (1), the person affected shall be
given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(3) Where the person affected pays the fine due under sub-section (1), within such time as may
be allowed in that behalf, the Court may, by order, revoke the declaration of forfeiture under section
105H and thereupon such property shall stand released.