47
duplicates of the summons to some conspicuous part of the house or homestead in which the person summoned
ordinarily resides; and thereupon the Court, after making such inquiries as it thinks fit, may either declare that the
summons has been duly served or order fresh service in such manner as it considers proper.
66. Service on Government servant.—(1) Where the person summoned is in the active service of the
Government, the Court issuing the summons shall ordinarily send it in duplicate to the head of the office in which
such person is employed; and such head shall thereupon cause the summons to be served in the manner provided by
section 62, and shall return it to the Court under his signature with the endorsement required by that section.
(2) Such signature shall be evidence of due service.
67. Service of summons outside local limits.—When a Court desires that a summons issued by it shall be
served at any place outside its local jurisdiction, it shall ordinarily send such summons in duplicate to a Magistrate
within whose local jurisdiction the person summoned resides, or is, to be there served.
68. Proof of service in such cases and when serving officer not present.—(1) When a summons issued by a
Court is served outside its local jurisdiction, and in any case where the officer who has served a summons is not
present at the hearing of the case, an affidavit, purporting to be made before a Magistrate, that such summons has
been served, and a duplicate of the summons purporting to be endorsed (in the manner provided by section 62 or
section 64) by the person to whom it was delivered or tendered or with whom it was left, shall be admissible in
evidence, and the statements made therein shall be deemed to be correct unless and until the contrary is proved.
(2) The affidavit mentioned in this section may be attached to the duplicate of the summons and returned to the
Court.
69. Service of summons on witness by post.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding
sections of this Chapter, a Court issuing a summons to a witness may, in addition to and simultaneously with the
issue of such summons, direct a copy of the summons to be served by registered post addressed to the witness at the
place where he ordinarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain.
(2) When an acknowledgement purporting to be signed by the witness or an endorsement purporting to be made
by a postal employee that the witness refused to take delivery of the summons has been received, the Court issuing
the summons may declare that the summons has been duly served.
STATE AMENDMENT
Andaman and Nicobar Islands U.T.
In section 69 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1974 in is application to the Union Territories of the
Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshdeep,—
(a) in sub-section (1), after the words “to be served by registered post” the words “or of the substance
thereof to be served by wireless message” shall be inserted.
(b) in sub-section (2), for the words “that the witness refused to take delivery of the summons” the words “or a
wireless messenger that the witness refused to take delivery of the summons or the message, as the ease may
be” shall be substituted.
[Vide Andaman and Nicobar Islands U.T. Act 6 of 1977, s. 2.]
B.—Warrant of arrest
70. Form of warrant of arrest and duration.—(1) Every warrant of arrest issued by a Court under this Code
shall be in writing, signed by the presiding officer of such Court and shall bear the seal of the Court.
(2) Every such warrant shall remain in force until it is cancelled by the Court which issued it, or until it is
executed.
71. Power to direct security to be taken.—(1) Any Court issuing a warrant for the arrest of any person may