138
1[311A. Power of Magistrate to order person to give specimen signatures or handwriting.—If a Magistrate
of the first class is satisfied that, for the purposes of any investigation or proceeding under this Code, it is expedient
to direct any person, including an accused person, to give specimen signatures or handwriting, he may make an
order to that effect and in that case the person to whom the order relates shall be produced or shall attend at the time
and place specified in such order and shall give his specimen signatures or handwriting:
Provided that no order shall be made under this section unless the person has at some time been arrested in
connection with such investigation or proceeding.]
312. Expenses of complainants and witnesses.—Subject to any rules made by the State Government, any
Criminal Court may, if it thinks fit, order payment, on the part of the Government, of the reasonable expenses of any
complainant or witness attending for the purposes of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding before such Court under
this Code.
313. Power to examine the accused.—(1) In every inquiry or trial, for the purpose of enabling the accused
personally to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against him, the Court—
(a) may at any stage, without previously warning the accused put such questions to him as the Court
considers necessary;
(b) shall, after the witnesses for the prosecution have been examined and before he is called on for his
defence, question him generally on the case:
Provided that in a summons-case, where the Court has dispensed with the personal attendance of the accused, it
may also dispense with his examination under clause (b).
(2) No oath shall be administered to the accused when he is examined under sub-section (1).
(3) The accused shall not render himself liable to punishment by refusing to answer such questions, or by giving
false answers to them.
(4) The answers given by the accused may be taken into consideration in such inquiry or trial, and put in
evidence for or against him in any other inquiry into, or trial for, any other offence which such answers may tend to
show he has committed.
2[(5) The Court may take help of Prosecutor and Defence Counsel in preparing relevant questions which are to
be put to the accused and the Court may permit filing of written statement by the accused as sufficient compliance of
this section.]
314. Oral arguments and memorandum of arguments.—(1) Any party to a proceeding may, as soon as may
be, after the close of his evidence, address concise oral arguments, and may, before he concludes the oral arguments,
if any, submit a memorandum to the Court setting forth concisely and under distinct headings, the arguments in
support of his case and every such memorandum shall form part of the record.
(2) A copy of every such memorandum shall be simultaneously furnished to the opposite party.
(3) No adjournment of the proceedings shall be granted for the purpose of filing the written arguments unless
the Court, for reasons to be recorded in writing, considers it necessary to grant such adjournment.
(4) The Court may, if it is of opinion that the oral arguments are not concise or relevant, regulate such
arguments.
315. Accused person to be competent witness.—(1) Any person accused of an offence before a Criminal
Court shall be a competent witness for the defence and may give evidence on oath in disproof of the charges made
against him or any person charged together with him at the same trial:
Provided that—
(a) he shall not be called as a witness except on his own request in writing;
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 27 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).
2. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 22 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).