95
capable of committing an offence, the first-mentioned offence may be inquired into or tried by a Court within whose
local jurisdiction either act was done.
181. Place of trial in case of certain offences.—(1) Any offence of being a thug, or murder committed by a
thug, of dacoity, of dacoity with murder, of belonging to a gang of dacoits, or of escaping from custody, may be
inquired into or tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or the accused person is
found.
(2) Any offence of kidnapping or abduction of a person may be inquired into or tried by a Court within whose
local jurisdiction the person was kidnapped or abducted or was conveyed or concealed or detained.
(3) Any offence of theft, extortion or robbery may be inquired into or tried by a Court within whose local
jurisdiction the offence was committed or the stolen property which is the subject of the offence was possessed by
any person committing it or by any person who received or retained such property knowing or having reason to
believe it to be stolen property.
(4) Any offence of criminal misappropriation or of criminal breach of trust may be inquired into or tried by a
Court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or any part of the property which is the subject of
the offence was received or retained, or was required to be returned or accounted for, by the accused person.
(5) Any offence which includes the possession of stolen property may be inquired into or tried by a Court
within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or the stolen property was possessed by any person who
received or retained it knowing or having reason to believe it to be stolen property.
182. Offences committed by letters, etc.—(1) Any offence which includes cheating may, if the deception is
practised by means of letters or telecommunication messages, be inquired into or tried by any Court within whose
local jurisdiction such letters or messages were sent or were received; and any offence of cheating and dishonestly
inducing delivery of property may be inquired into or tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction the property
was delivered by the person deceived or was received by the accused person.
(2) Any offence punishable under section 494 or section 495 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) may be
inquired into or tried by a Court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or the offender last
resided with his or her spouse by the first marriage 1[, or the wife by the first marriage has taken up permanent
residence after the commission of the offence].
183. Offence committed on journey or voyage.—When an offence is committed whilst the person by or
against whom, or the thing in respect of which, the offence is committed is in the course of performing a journey or
voyage, the offence may be inquired into or tried by a Court through or into whose local jurisdiction that person or
thing passed in the course of that journey or voyage.
184. Place of trial for offences triable together.—Where—
(a) the offences committed by any person are such that he may be charged with, and tried at one trial for,
each such offence by virtue of the provisions of section 219, section 220 or section 221, or
(b) the offence or offences committed by several persons are such that they may be charged with and tried
together by virtue of the provisions of section 223,
the offences may be inquired into or tried by any Court competent to inquire into or try any of the offences.
185. Power to order cases to be tried in different sessions divisions.—Notwithstanding anything contained in
the preceding provisions of this Chapter, the State Government may direct that any cases or class of cases committed
for trial in any district may be tried in any sessions division:
Provided that such direction is not repugnant to any direction previously issued by the High Court or the
Supreme Court under the Constitution, or under this Code or any other law for the time being in force.
1.Ins. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 15 (w.e.f. 18.12.1978).