57
2[issued by—
(I) a Court in any State or area in India outside the said territories;
(II) a Court, Judge or Magistrate in a contracting State,
it shall cause the same to be served or executed] as if it were a summons or warrant received by it from
another Court in the said territories for service or execution within its local jurisdiction; and where—
(i) a warrant of arrest has been executed, the person arrested shall, so far as possible, be dealt with in
accordance with the procedure prescribed by sections 80 and 81,
(ii) a search-warrant has been executed, the things found in the search shall, so far as possible, be dealt
with in accordance with the procedure prescribed by section 101:
1[Provided that in a case where a summons or search-warrant received from a contracting State has been
executed, the documents or things produced or things found in the search shall be forwarded to the Court issuing the
summons or search-warrant through such authority as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf.]
2[CHAPTER VIIA
RECIPROCAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR ASSISTANCE IN CERTAIN MATTERS AND PROCEDURE FOR
ATTACHMENT AND FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY
105A. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “contracting State” means any country or place outside India in respect of which arrangements have
been made by the Central Government with the Government of such country through a treaty or otherwise;
(b) “identifying” includes establishment of a proof that the property was derived from, or used in, the
commission of an offence;
(c) “proceeds of crime” means any property derived or obtained directly or indirectly, by any person as a
result of criminal activity (including crime involving currency transfers) or the value of any such property;
(d) “property” means property and assets of every description whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or
immovable, tangible or intangible and deeds and instruments evidencing title to, or interest in, such property or
assets derived or used in the commission of an offence and includes property obtained through proceeds of
crime;
(e) “tracing” means determining the nature, source, disposition, movement, title or ownership of property.
105B. Assistance in securing transfer of persons.—(1) Where a Court in India, in relation to a criminal
matter, desires that a warrant for arrest of any person to attend or produce a document or other thing issued by it
shall be executed in any place in a contracting State, it shall send such warrant in duplicate in such form to such
Court, Judge or Magistrate through such authority, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this
behalf and that Court, Judge or Magistrate, as the case may be, shall cause the same to be executed.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code, if, in the course of an investigation or any inquiry into an
offence, an application is made by the investigating officer or any officer superior in rank to the investigating officer
that the attendance of a person who is in any place in a contracting State is required in connection with such
investigation or inquiry and the Court is satisfied that such attendance is so required, it shall issue a summons or
warrant, in duplicate, against the said person to such Court, Judge or Magistrate, in such form as the Central
Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf, to cause the same to be served or executed.
(3) Where a Court in India, in relation to a criminal matter, has received a warrant for arrest of any person
1. Ins. by Act 32 of 1988, s. 2, (w.e.f. 25-5-1988).
2. Ins. by Act 40 of 1993, s. 2 (w.e.f. 20-7-1994).