129
285. Commission to whom to be issued.—(1) If the witness is within the territories to which this Code
extends, the commission shall be directed to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or the Chief Judicial
Magistrate, as the case may be, within whose local jurisdiction the witness is to be found.
(2) If the witness is in India, but in a State or an area to which this Code does not extend, the commission shall
be directed to such Court or officer as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.
(3) If the witness is in a country or place outside India and arrangements have been made by the Central
Government with the Government of such country or place for taking the evidence of witnesses in relation to
criminal matters, the commission shall be issued in such form, directed to such Court or officer, and sent to such
authority for transmission as the Central Government may, by notification, prescribed in this behalf.
286. Execution of commissions.—Upon receipt of the commission, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, or
Chief Judicial Magistrate or such Metropolitan or Judicial Magistrate as he may appoint in this behalf, shall summon
the witness before him or proceed to the place where the witness is, and shall take down his evidence in the same
manner, and may for this purpose exercise the same powers, as in trials or warrant-cases under this Code.
287. Parties may examine witnesses.—(1) The parties to any proceeding under this Code in which a
commission is issued may respectively forward any interrogatories in writing which the Court or Magistrate
directing the commission may think relevant to the issue, and it shall be lawful for the Magistrate, Court or officer to
whom the commission, is directed, or to whom the duty of executing it is delegated, to examine the witness upon
such interrogatories.
(2) Any such party may appear before such magistrate, Court or Officer by pleader, or if not in custody, in
person, and may examine, cross-examine and re-examine (as the case may be) the said witness.
288. Return of commission.—(1) After any commission issued under section 284 has been duly executed, it
shall be returned, together with the deposition of the witness examined thereunder, to the Court or Magistrate issuing
the commission; and the commission, the return thereto and the deposition shall be open at all reasonable times to
inspection of the parties, and may, subject to all just exceptions, be read in evidence in the case by either party, and
shall form part of the record.
(2) Any deposition so taken, if it satisfies the conditions prescribed by section 33 of the Indian Evidence Act,
1872 (1 of 1872), may also be received in evidence at any subsequent stage of the case before another Court.
289. Adjournment of proceeding.—In every case in which a commission is issued under section 284, the
inquiry, trial or other proceeding may be adjourned for a specified time reasonably sufficient for the execution and
return of the commission.
290. Execution of foreign commissions.—(1) The provisions of section 286 and so much of section 287 and
section 288 as relate to the execution of a commission and its return shall apply in respect of commissions issued by
any of the Courts, Judges or Magistrates hereinafter mentioned as they apply to commissions issued under section
284.
(2) The Courts, Judges and Magistrates referred to in sub-section (1) are—
(a) any such Court, Judge or Magistrate exercising jurisdiction within an area in India to which this Code
does not extend, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf;
(b) any Court, Judge or Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in any such country or place outside India, as the
Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf, and having authority, under the law in force in
that country or place, to issue commissions for the examination of witnesses in relation to criminal matters.
291. Deposition of medical witness.—(1) The deposition of civil surgeon or other medical witness, taken and
attested by a Magistrate in the presence of the accused, or taken on commission under this Chapter, may be given in