149
retardation, the Magistrate shall further determine whether the mental retardation renders the accused incapable of
entering defence, and if the accused is found so incapable, the Magistrate shall order closure of the inquiry and deal
with the accused in the manner provided under section 330.]
329. Procedure in case of person of unsound mind tried before Court.—(1) If at the trial of any person
before a Magistrate or Court of Session, it appears to the Magistrate or Court that such person is of unsound mind
and consequently incapable of making his defence, the Magistrate or Court shall, in the first instance, try the fact of
such unsoundness and incapacity, and if the Magistrate or Court, after considering such medical and other evidence
as may be produced before him or it, is satisfied of the fact, he or it shall record a finding to that effect and shall
postpone further proceedings in the case.
1[(1A) If during trial, the Magistrate or Court of Sessions finds the accused to be of unsound mind, he or it shall
refer such person to a psychiatrist or clinical psychologist for care and treatment, and the psychiatrist or clinical
psychologist, as the case may be shall report to the Magistrate or Court whether the accused is suffering from
unsoundness of mind:
Provided that if the accused is aggrieved by the information given by the psychiatric or clinical psychologist, as
the case may be, to the Magistrate, he may prefer an appeal before the Medical Board which shall consist of—
(a) head of psychiatry unit in the nearest government hospital; and
(b) a faculty member in psychiatry in the nearest medical college.]
2[(2) If such Magistrate or Court is informed that the person referred to in sub-section (1A) is a person of
unsound mind, the Magistrate or Court shall further determine whether unsoundness of mind renders the accused
incapable of entering defence and if the accused is found so incapable, the Magistrate or Court shall record a finding
to that effect and shall examine the record of evidence produced by the prosecution and after hearing the advocate of
the accused but without questioning the accused, if the Magistrate or Court finds that no prima facie case is made
out against the accused, he or it shall, instead of postponing the trial, discharge the accused and deal with him in the
manner provided under section 330:
Provided that if the Magistrate or Court finds that a prima facie case is made out against the accused in respect
of whom a finding of unsoundness of mind is arrived at, he shall postpone the trial for such period, as in the opinion
of the psychiatrist or clinical psychologist, is required for the treatment of the accused.
(3) If the Magistrate or Court finds that a prima facie case is made out against the accused and he is incapable of
entering defence by reason of mental retardation, he or it shall not hold the trial and order the accused to be dealt
with in accordance with section 330.]
3[330. Release of person of unsound mind pending investigation or trial.—(1) Whenever a person if found
under section 328 or section 329 to be incapable of entering defence by reason of unsoundness of mind or mental
retardation, the Magistrate or Court, as the case may be shall, whether the case is one in which bail may be taken or
not, order release of such person on bail:
Provided that the accused is suffering from unsoundness of mind or mental retardation which does not mandate
in-patient treatment and a friend or relative undertakes to obtain regular out-patient psychiatric treatment from the
nearest medical facility and to prevent from doing injury to himself or to any other person.
(2) If the case is one in which, in the opinion of the Magistrate or Court, as the case may be, bail cannot be
granted or if an appropriate undertaking is not given, he or it shall order the accused to be kept in such a place where
regular psychiatric treatment can be provided, and shall report the action taken to the State Government:
Provided that no order for the detention of the accused in a lunatic asylum shall be made otherwise than in
accordance with such rules as the State Government may have made under the Mental Health Act, 1987 (14 of
1987).
(3) Whenever a person is found under section 328 or section 329 to be incapable of entering defence by reason
of unsoundness of mind or mental retardation, the Magistrate or Court, as the case may be, shall keeping in view the
nature of the act committed and the extent of unsoundness of mind or mental retardation, further determine if the
release of the accused can be ordered:
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 26 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009)
2. Subs. by s. 26, ibid., for sub-section (2), (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).
3. Subs. by s. 27, ibid., for section 330 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).