23
(t) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Code;
(u) “Public Prosecutor” means any person appointed under section 24, and includes any person
acting under the directions of a Public Prosecutor;
(v) “sub-division” means a sub-division of a district;
(w) “summons-case” means a case relating to an offence, and not being a warrant-case;
1[(wa) “victim” means a person who has suffered any loss or injury caused by reason of the act or
omission for which the accused person has been charged and the expression “victim” includes his or
her guardian or legal heir;]
(x) “warrant-case” means a case relating to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for
life or imprisonment for a term exceeding two years;
(y) words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Indian Penal Code
(45 of 1860) have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.
STATE AMENDMENT
Haryana
In section 2, for the words “State of Haryana”, the words “Union territory of Chandigarh” shall be
substituted.
[Vide Notification No. GSR929(E) dated 16th December, 2019.]
3. Construction of references.—(1) In this Code,—
(a) any reference, without any qualifying words, to a Magistrate, shall be construed, unless the
context otherwise requires,—
(i) in relation to an area outside a metropolitan area, as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate;
(ii) in relation to a metropolitan area, as a reference to a Metropolitan Magistrate;
(b) any reference to a Magistrate of the second class shall, in relation to an area outside a
metropolitan area, be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate of the second class, and, in
relation to a metropolitan area, as a reference to a Metropolitan Magistrate;
(c) any reference to a Magistrate of the first class shall,—
(i) in relation to a metropolitan area, be construed as a reference to a Metropolitan Magistrate
exercising jurisdiction in that area;
(ii) in relation to any other area, be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate of the
first class exercising jurisdiction in that area;
(d) any reference to the Chief Judicial Magistrate shall, in relation to a metropolitan area, be
construed as a reference to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in that area.
(2) In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to the Court of a Judicial
Magistrate shall, in relation to a metropolitan area, be construed as a reference to the Court of the
Metropolitan Magistrate for that area.
(3) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in any enactment passed before the
commencement of this Code,—
(a) to a Magistrate of the first class, shall be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate of
the first class;
1. Ins. by Act 5 of 2009, s. 2 (w.e.f. 31-12-2009).