67
Provided also that an application for the monthly allowance for the interim maintenance and expenses of
proceeding under the second proviso shall, as far as possible, be disposed of within sixty days from the date of the
service of notice of the application to such person.]
Explanation.—For the purposes of this Chapter,—
(a) “minor” means a person who, under the provisions of the Indian Majority Act, 1875 (9 of 1875) is
deemed not to have attained his majority;
(b) “wife” includes a woman who has been divorced by, or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and
has not remarried.
1[(2) Any such allowance for the maintenance or interim maintenance and expenses of proceeding shall be
payable from the date of the order, or, if so ordered, from the date of the application for maintenance or interim
maintenance and expenses of proceeding, as the case may be.]
(3) If any person so ordered fails without sufficient cause to comply with the order, any such Magistrate may, for
every breach of the order, issue a warrant for levying the amount due in the manner provided for levying fines, and
may sentence such person, for the whole or any part of each month’s 2[allowance for the maintenance or the interim
maintenance and expenses of proceeding, as the case may be,] remaining unpaid after the execution of the warrant,
to imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month or until payment if sooner made:
Provided that no warrant shall be issued for the recovery of any amount due under this section unless application
be made to the Court to levy such amount within a period of one year from the date on which it became due:
Provided further that if such person offers to maintain his wife on condition of her living with him, and she
refuses to live with him, such Magistrate may consider any grounds of refusal stated by her, and may make an order
under this section notwithstanding such offer, if he is satisfied that there is just ground for so doing.
Explanation.—If a husband has contracted marriage with another woman or keeps a mistress, it shall be
considered to be just ground for his wife’s refusal to live with him.
(4) No wife shall be entitled to receive an 3[allowance for the maintenance or the interim maintenance and
expenses of proceeding, as the case may be,] from her husband under this section if she is living in adultery, or if,
without any sufficient reason, she refuses to live with her husband, or if they are living separately by mutual
consent.
(5) On proof that any wife in whose favour an order has been made under this section in living in adultery, or
that without sufficient reason she refuses to live with her husband, or that they are living separately by mutual
consent.
STATE AMENDMENTS
Madhya Pradesh
Amendment of Section 125.— In sub-section (1) of section 125 of the Principal Act, for the words “five
hundred rupees” the words “three thousand rupees” shall be substituted
[Vide Madhya Pradesh Act, 10 of 1998, s. 3.]
Madhya Pradesh
Amendment of Section 125.— In section 125 of the principal Act,—
1. Subs. by Act 50 of 2001, s. 2, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
2. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., for “allowance” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001)
3. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., for “allowance” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).