176
place in which he is to be confined; and in such case, the sentence shall commence on the date of his arrest.
419. Direction of warrant for execution.—Every warrant for the execution of a sentence of imprisonment
shall be directed to the officer in charge of the jail or other place in which the prisoner is, or is to be, confined.
420. Warrant with whom to be lodged.—When the prisoner is to be confined in a jail, the warrant shall be
lodged with the jailor.
C.—Levy of fine
421. Warrant for levy of fine.—(1) When an offender has been sentenced to pay a fine, the Court passing the
sentence may take action for the recovery of the fine in either or both of the following ways, that is to say, it may—
(a) issue a warrant for the levy of the amount by attachment and sale of any movable property belonging to
the offender;
(b) issue a warrant to the Collector of the district, authorising him to realise the amount as arrears of land
revenue from the movable or immovable property, or both, of the defaulter:
Provided that, if the sentence directs that in default of payment of the fine, the offender shall be imprisoned, and
if such offender has undergone the whole of such imprisonment in default, no Court shall issue such warrant unless,
for special reasons to be recorded in writing, it considers it necessary so to do, or unless it has made an order for the
payment of expenses or compensation out of the fine under section 357.
(2) The State Government may make rules regulating the manner in which warrants under clause (a) of
sub-section (1) are to be executed, and for the summary determination of any claims made by any person other than
the offender in respect of any property attached in execution of such warrant.
(3) Where the Court issues a warrant to the Collector under clause (b) of sub-section (1), the Collector shall
realise the amount in accordance with the law relating to recovery of arrears of land revenue, as if such warrant were
a certificate issued under such law:
Provided that no such warrant shall be executed by the arrest or detention in prison of the offender.
422. Effect of such warrant.—A warrant issued under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 421 by any Court
may be executed within the local jurisdiction of such Court, and it shall authorise the attachment and sale of any
such property outside such jurisdiction, when it is endorsed by the District Magistrate within whose local
jurisdiction such property is found.
423. Warrant for levy of fine issued by a Court in any territory to which this Code does not extend.—
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code or in any other law for the time being in force, when an offender
has been sentenced to pay a fine by a Criminal Court in any territory to which this Code does not extend and the
Court passing the sentence issues a warrant to the Collector of a district in the territories to which this Code extends,
authorising him to realise the amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue, such warrant shall be deemed to be a
warrant issued under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 421 by a Court in the territories to which this Code
extends, and the provisions of sub-section (3) of the said section as to the execution of such warrant shall apply
accordingly.
424. Suspension of execution of sentence of imprisonment.—(1) When an offender has been sentenced to
fine only and to imprisonment in default of payment of the fine, and the fine is not paid forthwith, the Court may—
(a) order that the fine shall be payable either in full on or before a date not more than thirty days from the
date of the order, or in two or three instalments, of which the first shall be payable on or before a date not more
than thirty days from the date of the order and the other or others at an interval or at intervals, as the case may
be, of not more than thirty days;
(b) suspend the execution of the sentence of imprisonment and release the offender, on the execution by the
offender of a bond, with or without sureties, as the Court thinks fit, conditioned for his appearance before the
Court on the date or dates on or before which payment of the fine or the instalments thereof, as the case may be,