104
made to a Magistrate who is not competent to take cognizance of the offence, he shall,—
(a) if the complaint is in writing, return it for presentation to the proper Court with an
endorsement to that effect;
(b) if the complaint is not in writing, direct the complainant to the proper Court.
202. Postponement of issue of process.—(1) Any Magistrate, on receipt of a complaint of an offence
of which he is authorised to take cognizance or which has been made over to him under section 192, may,
if he thinks fit, 1[and shall, in a case where the accused is residing at a place beyond the area in which he
exercises his jurisdiction,] postpone the issue of process against the accused, and either inquire into the
case himself or direct an investigation to be made by a police officer or by such other person as he thinks
fit, for the purpose of deciding whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding:
Provided that no such direction for investigation shall be made,—
(a) where it appears to the Magistrate that the offence complained of is triable exclusively by the
Court of Session; or
(b) where the complaint has not been made by a Court, unless the complainant and the witnesses
present (if any) have been examined on oath under section 200.
(2) In an inquiry under sub-section (1), the Magistrate may, if he thinks fit, take evidence of witnesses
on oath:
Provided that if it appears to the Magistrate that the offence complained of is triable exclusively by
the Court of Session, he shall call upon the complainant to produce all his witnesses and examine them on
oath.
(3) If an investigation under sub-section (1) is made by a person not being a police officer, he shall
have for that investigation all the powers conferred by this Code on an officer in charge of a police station
except the power to arrest without warrant.
203. Dismissal of complaint.—If, after considering the statements on oath (if any) of the
complainant and of the witnesses and the result of the inquiry or investigation (if any) under section 202,
the Magistrate is of opinion that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding, he shall dismiss the
complaint, and in every such case he shall briefly record his reasons for so doing.
CHAPTER XVI
COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS BEFORE MAGISTRATES
204. Issue of process.—(1) If in the opinion of a Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence there is
sufficient ground for proceeding, and the case appears to be—
(a) a summons-case, he shall issue his summons for the attendance of the accused, or
(b) a warrant-case, he may issue a warrant, or, if he thinks fit, a summons, for causing the accused
to be brought or to appear at a certain time before such Magistrate or (if he has no jurisdiction
himself) some other Magistrate having jurisdiction.
(2) No summons or warrant shall be issued against the accused under sub-section (1) until a list of the
prosecution witnesses has been filed.
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 19 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).