83
whom the case is to be inquired into or tried.
STATE AMENDMENT
Chhattisgarh
In clause (a) of sub-section (5A) of Section 164 of the Code, for the words and figures “or section
509” the punctuation, words and figures, “section 376F, section 509, section 509A or section 509B” shall
be substituted.
[Vide Chhattisgarh Act 25 of 2015, s. 9]
Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Lakshadweep
After sub-section (1) of section 164, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely: —“(1A)
Where; in any island, there is no Judicial Magistrate for the time being, and the State Government is of
opinion that it is necessary and expedient so to do, that Government may, after consulting the High Court,
specially empower any Executive Magistrate (not being a police officer), to exercise the powers conferred
by sub-section (1) on a Judicial Magistrate, and thereupon references in section 164 to a Judicial
Magistrate shall be construed as references to the Executive Magistrate so empowered.”;
[Vide The Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Regulation, 1974 Act (1 of 1974), s. 5.]
1[164A. Medical examination of the victim of rape.—(1) Where, during the stage when an offence of
committing rape or attempt to commit rape is under investigation, it is proposed to get the person of the woman with
whom rape is alleged or attempted to have been committed or attempted, examined by a medical expert, such
examination shall be conducted by a registered medical practitioner employed in a hospital run by the Government
or a local authority and in the absence of such a practitioner, by any other registered medical practitioner, with the
consent of such woman or of a person competent to give such consent on her behalf and such woman shall be sent to
such registered medical practitioner within twenty-four hours from the time of receiving the information relating to
the commission of such offence.
(2) The registered medical practitioner, to whom such woman is sent, shall, without delay, examine her person
and prepare a report of his examination giving the following particulars, namely:—
(i) the name and address of the woman and of the person by whom she was brought;
(ii) the age of the woman;
(iii) the description of material taken from the person of the woman for DNA profiling;
(iv) marks of injury, if any, on the person of the woman;
(v) general mental condition of the woman; and
(vi) other material particulars in reasonable detail.
(3) The report shall state precisely the reasons for each conclusion arrived at.
(4) The report shall specifically record that the consent of the woman or of the person competent to give such
consent on her behalf to such examination had been obtained.
(5) The exact time of commencement and completion of the examination shall also be noted in the report.
(6) The registered medical practitioner shall, without delay forward the report to the investigating officer who
shall forward it to the Magistrate referred to in section 173 as part of the documents referred to in clause (a) of
1. Ins. by Act 25 of 2005, s. 17 (w.e.f. 23-6-2006).