125
it is submitted may, after considering such statement, decline to countersign the order.
268. Power of State Government to exclude certain persons from operation of section 267.—(1) The State
Government may, at any time, having regard to the matters specified in sub-section (2), by general or special order,
direct that any person or class of persons shall not be removed from the prison in which he or they may be confined
or detained, and thereupon, so long as the order remains in force, no order made under section 267, whether before
or after the order of the State Government, shall have effect in respect of such person or class of persons.
(2) Before making an order under sub-section (1), the State Government shall have regard to the following
matters, namely:—
(a) the nature of the offence for which, or the grounds on which, the person or class of persons has been
ordered to be confined or detained in prison;
(b) the likelihood of the disturbance of public order if the person or class of persons is allowed to be
removed from the prison;
(c) the public interest, generally.
269. Officer in charge of prison to abstain from carrying out order in certain contingencies.—Where the
person in respect of whom an order is made under section 267—
(a) is by reason of sickness or infirmity unfit to be removed from the prison; or
(b) is under committal for trial or under remand pending trial or pending a preliminary investigation; or
(c) is in custody for a period which would expire before the expiration of the time required for complying
with the order and for taking him back to the prison in which he is confined or detained; or
(d) is a person to whom an order made by the State Government under section 268 applies,
the officer in charge of the prison shall abstain from carrying out the Court's order and shall send to the Court a
statement of reasons for so abstaining:
Provided that where the attendance of such person is required for giving evidence at a place not more than
twenty-five kilometres distance from the prison, the officer in charge of the prison shall not so abstain for the reason
mentioned in clause (b).
270. Prisoner to be brought to Court in custody.—Subject to the provisions of section 269, the officer in
charge of the prison shall, upon delivery of an order made under sub-section (1) of section 267 and duly
countersigned, where necessary, under sub-section (2) thereof, cause the person named in the order to be taken to
the Court in which his attendance is required, so as to be present there at the time mentioned in the order, and shall
cause him to be kept in custody in or near the Court until he has been examined or until the Court authorises him to
be taken back to the prison in which he was confined or detained.
271. Power to issue commission for examination of witness in prison.—The provisions of this Chapter shall
be without prejudice to the power of the Court to issue, under section 284, a commission for the examination, as a
witness, of any person confined or detained in a prison; and the provisions of Part B of Chapter XXIII shall apply in
relation to the examination on commission of any such person in the prison as they apply in relation to the
examination on commission of any other person.
CHAPTER XXIII
EVIDENCE IN INQUIRIES AND TRIALS
A.—Mode of taking and recording evidence
272. Language of Courts.—The State Government may determine what shall be, for purposes of this Code, the
language of each Court within the State other than the High Court.