85
any record sent to the Magistrate under sub-section (4).
1[166A. Letter of request to competent authority for investigation in a country or place outside India.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code, if, in the course of an investigation into an offence, an
application is made by the investigating officer or any officer superior in rank to the investigating officer that
evidence may be available in a country or place outside India, any Criminal Court may issue a letter of request to a
Court or an authority in that country or place competent to deal with such request to examine orally any person
supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case and to record his statement made in the
course of such examination and also to require such person or any other person to produce any document or thing
which may be in his possession pertaining to the case and to forward all the evidence so taken or collected or the
authenticated copies thereof or the thing so collected to the Court issuing such letter.
(2) The letter of request shall be transmitted in such manner as the Central Government may specify in this
behalf.
(3) Every statement recorded or document or thing received under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be the
evidence collected during the course of investigation under this Chapter.
166B. Letter of request from a country or place outside India to a Court or an authority for investigation
in India.—(1) Upon receipt of a letter of request from a Court or an authority in a country or place outside India
competent to issue such letter in that country or place for the examination of any person or production of any
document or thing in relation to an offence under investigation in that country or place, the Central Government
may, if it thinks fit—
(i) forward the same to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or Chief Judicial Magistrate or such
Metropolitan Magistrate or Judicial Magistrate as he may appoint in this behalf, who shall thereupon summon
the person before him and record his statement or cause the document or thing to be produced; or
(ii) send the letter to any police officer for investigation, who shall thereupon investigate into the offence in
the same manner,
as if the offence had been committed within India.
(2) All the evidence taken or collected under sub-section (1), or authenticated copies thereof or the thing so
collected, shall be forwarded by the Magistrate or police officer, as the case may be, to the Central Government for
transmission to the Court or the authority issuing the letter of request, in such manner as the Central Government
may deem fit.]
167. Procedure when investigation cannot be completed in twenty-four hours.—(1) Whenever any person
is arrested and detained in custody, and it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within the period of
twenty-four hours fixed by section 57, and there are grounds for believing that the accusation or information is well-
founded, the officer in charge of the police station or the police officer making the investigation, if he is not below
the rank of sub-inspector, shall forthwith transmit to the nearest Judicial Magistrate a copy of the entries in the diary
hereinafter prescribed relating to the case, and shall at the same time forward the accused to such Magistrate.
(2) The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under this section may, whether he has or has not
jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time, authorise the detention of the accused in such custody as such
Magistrate thinks fit, for a term not exceeding fifteen days in the whole; and if he has no jurisdiction to try the case
or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may order the accused to be forwarded to a
Magistrate having such jurisdiction:
Provided that—
2[(a) the Magistrate may authorise the detention of the accused person, otherwise than in custody of the
police, beyond the period of fifteen days, if he is satisfied that adequate grounds exist for doing so, but no
Magistrate shall authorise the detention of the accused person in custody under this paragraph for a total period
exceeding—
(i) ninety days, where the investigation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life
or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years;
1. Ins. by Act 10 of 1990, s. 2 (w.e.f. 19-12-1990).
2. Subs. by Act 45 of 1978, s. 13, for paragraph (a) (w.e.f. 18-12-1978).