48
(a) any area declared to be a disturbed area under any enactment, for the time being in force,
making provision for the suppression of disorder and restoration and maintenance of public order; or
(b) any area in which there has been, over a period of more than one month, extensive disturbance
of the public peace,
and it is shown that such person had been at a place in such area at a time when firearms or explosives
were used at or from that place to attack or resist the members of any armed forces or the forces charged
with the maintenance of public order acting in the discharge of their duties, it shall be presumed, unless
the contrary is shown, that such person had committed such offence.
(2) The offences referred to in sub-section (1) are the following, namely: ––
(a) an offence under section 121, section 121A, section 122 or section 123 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860);
(b) criminal conspiracy or attempt to commit, or abetment of, an offence under section 122 or
section 123 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
112. Birth during marriage, conclusive proof of legitimacy. –– The fact that any person was born
during the continuance of a valid marriage between his mother and any man, or within two hundred and
eighty days after its dissolution, the mother remaining unmarried, shall be conclusive proof that he is the
legitimate son of that man, unless it can be shown that the parties to the marriage had no access to each
other at any time when he could have been begotten.
113. Proof of cession of territory. –– A notification in the Gazette of India that any portion of
British territory has
1[before the commencement of Part III of the Government of India
Act, 1935 (26 Geo. 5, c. 2)] been ceded to any Native State, Prince or Ruler, shall be conclusive proof
that a valid cession of such territory took place at the date mentioned in such notification.
2[113A. Presumption as to abetment of suicide by a married woman. ––When the question is
whether the commission of suicide by a woman had been abetted by her husband or any relative of her
husband and it is shown that she had committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of
her marriage and that her husband or such relative of her husband had subjected her to cruelty, the court
may presume, having regard to all the other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been abetted
by her husband or by such relative of her husband.
Explanation. –– For the purposes of this section, “cruelty” shall have the same meaning as in
section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
3[113B. Presumption as to dowry death. ––-When the question is whether a person has committed
the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected
by such person to cruelty or harassment for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, the court shall
presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
Explanation. –– For the purposes of this section, “dowry death” shall have the same meaning as in
section 304B of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
114. Court may presume existence of certain facts. –– The Court may presume the existence of any
fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events,
human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case.
1. Ins. by the A.O. 1937, Part III of the Government of India Act 1935, came into force on the 1st April, 1937.
2. Ins. by Act 46 of 1983, s. 7.
3. Ins. by Act 43 of 1986, s. 12 (w.e.f. 5-1-1986).