27
Illustrations
(a) A and B separately sue C for a libel which reflects upon each of them. C in each case says that the
matter alleged to be libellous is true, and the circumstances are such that it is probably true in each case,
or in neither.
A obtains a decree against C for damages on the ground that C failed to make out his justification.
The fact is irrelevant as between B and C.
(b) A prosecutes B for adultery with C, A’s wife.
B denies that C is A’s wife, but the Court convicts B of adultery.
Afterwards, C is prosecuted for bigamy in marrying B during A’s lifetime.
C says that she never was A’s wife.
The judgment against B is irrelevant as against C.
(c) A prosecutes B for stealing a cow from him. B is convicted.
A afterwards sues C for the cow, which B had sold to him before his conviction. As between A and
C, the judgment against B is irrelevant.
(d) A has obtained a decree for the possession of land against B. C, B’s son, murders A in
consequence.
The existence of the judgment is relevant, as showing motive for a crime.
1[(e) A is charged with theft and with having been previously convicted of theft. The previous
conviction is relevant as a fact in issue.
(f) A is tried for the murder of B. The fact that B prosecuted A for libel and that A was convicted and
sentenced is relevant under section 8 as showing the motive for the fact in issue.]
44. Fraud or collusion in obtaining judgment, or incompetency of Court, may be
proved.––Any party to a suit or other proceeding may show that any judgment, order or decree which is
relevant under section 40, 41 or 42, and which has been proved by the adverse party, was delivered by a
Court not competent to deliver it, or was obtained by fraud or collusion.
OPINIONS OF THIRD PERSONS WHEN RELEVANT
45. Opinions of experts.––When the Court has to form an opinion upon a point of foreign law or of
science, or art, or as to identity of handwriting 2[or finger impressions], the opinions upon that point of
persons specially skilled in such foreign law, science or art, 3[or in questions as to identity of handwriting]
2[or finger impressions] are relevant facts.
Such persons are called experts.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether the death of A was caused by poison.
The opinions of experts as to the symptoms produced by the poison by which A is supposed to have
died, are relevant.
1. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, s. 5.
2. Ins. by Act 5 of 1899, s. 3 for discussion in Council as to whether “finger impressions” include “thumb
impressions” see Gazette of India, 1898, pt.VI, .
3. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 4.