2
SECTIONS
14. Facts showing existence of state of mind, or of body, or bodily feeling.
15. Facts bearing on question whether act was accidental or intentional.
16. Existence of course of business when relevant.
ADMISSIONS
17. Admission defined.
18. Admission––
by party to proceeding or his agent;
by suitor in representative character;
by party interested in subject-matter;
by person from whom interest derived.
19. Admissions by persons whose position must be proved as against party to suit.
20. Admissions by persons expressly referred to by party to suit.
21. Proof of admissions against persons making them, and by or on their behalf.
22. When oral admissions as to contents of documents are relevant.
22A. When oral admission as to contents of electronic records are relevant.
23. Admissions in civil cases when relevant.
24. Confession caused by inducement, threat or promise, when irrelevant in criminal proceeding.
25. Confession to police-officer not to be proved.
26. Confession by accused while in custody of Police not to be proved against him.
27. How much of information received from accused may be proved.
28. Confession made after removal of impression caused by inducement, threat or promise, relevant.
29. Confession otherwise relevant not to become irrelevant because of promise of secrecy, etc.
30. Consideration of proved confession affecting person making it and others jointly under trial for
same offence.
31. Admissions not conclusive proof, but may estop.
STATEMENTS BY PERSONS WHO CANNOT BE CALLED AS WITNESSES
32. Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead or cannot be found, etc., is
relevant.
When it relates to cause of death;
or is made in course of business;
or against interest of maker;
or gives opinion as to public right or custom, or matters of general interest;
or relates to existence of relationship;
or is made in will or deed relating to family affairs;
or in document relating to transaction mentioned in section 13, clause (a);
or is made by several persons and expresses feelings relevant to matter in question.