33
Illustration
A person is shown to have been in possession of a number of placards, all printed at one time from
one original. Any one of the placards is primary evidence of the contents of any other, but no one of them
is primary evidence of the contents of the original.
63. Secondary evidence. –– Secondary evidence means and includes ––
(1) certified copies given under the provisions hereinafter contained;
(2) copies made from the original by mechanical processes which in themselves insure the
accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such copies;
(3) copies made from or compared with the original;
(4) counterparts of documents as against the parties who did not execute them;
(5) oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some person who has himself seen it.
Illustrations
(a) A photograph of an original is secondary evidence of its contents, though the two have not been
compared, if it is proved that the thing photographed was the original.
(b) A copy compared with a copy of a letter made by a copying machine is secondary evidence of the
contents of the letter, if it is shown that the copy made by the copying machine was made from the
original.
(c) A copy transcribed from a copy, but afterwards compared with the original, is secondary
evidence; but the copy not so compared is not secondary evidence of the original, although the copy from
which it was transcribed was compared with the original.
(d) Neither an oral account of a copy compared with the original, nor an oral account of a photograph
or machine-copy of the original, is secondary evidence of the original.
64. Proof of documents by primary evidence.––Documents must be proved by primary evidence
except in the cases hereinafter mentioned.
65. Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may be given.––Secondary
evidence may be given of the existence, condition, or contents of a document in the following cases: ––
(a) when the original is shown or appears to be in the possession or power ––
of the person against whom the document is sought to be proved, or
of any person out of reach of, or not subject to, the process of the Court, or
of any person legally bound to produce it,
and when, after the notice mentioned in section 66, such person does not produce it;
(b) when the existence, condition or contents of the original have been proved to be admitted in
writing by the person against whom it is proved or by his representative in interest;
(c) when the original has been destroyed or lost, or when the party offering evidence of its
contents cannot, for any other reason not arising from his own default or neglect, produce it in
reasonable time;
(d) when the original is of such a nature as not to be easily movable;
(e) when the original is a public document within the meaning of section 74;