45
96. Evidence as to application of language which can apply to one only of several
persons. –– When the facts are such that the language used might have been meant to apply to any one,
and could not have been meant to apply to more than one, of several persons or things, evidence may be
given of facts which show which of those persons or things it was intended to apply to.
Illustrations
(a) A agrees to sell to B, for Rs. 1,000, “my white horse”. A has two white horses. Evidence may be give of
facts which show which of them was meant.
(b) A agrees to accompany B to Haidarabad. Evidence may be given of facts showing whether Haidarabad in
the Dekkhan or Haiderabad in Sind was meant.
97. Evidence as to application of language to one of two sets of facts, to neither of which the
whole correctly applies. –– When the language used applies partly to one set of existing facts, and partly
to another set of existing facts, but the whole of it does not apply correctly to either, evidence may be
given to show to which of the two it was meant to apply.
Illustration
A agrees to sell to B “my land at X in the occupation of Y”. A has land at X, but not in the occupation of Y, and
he has land in the occupation of Y but it is not at X. Evidence may be given of facts showing which he meant to sell.
98. Evidence as to meaning of illegible characters, etc. –– Evidence may be given to show the
meaning of illegible or not commonly intelligible characters, of foreign, obsolete, technical, local and
provincial expressions, of abbreviations and of words used in a peculiar sense.
Illustration
A, sculptor, agrees to sell to B, “all my mods”. A has both models and modelling tools. Evidence may be given
to show which he meant to sell.
99. Who may give evidence of agreement varying terms of document.––Persons who are not
parties to a document, or their representatives in interest, may give evidence of any facts tending to show
a contemporaneous agreement varying the terms of the document.
Illustration
A and B make a contract in writing that B shall sell A certain cotton, to be paid for on delivery. At the same
time they make an oral agreement that three months credit shall be given to A. This could not be shown as between
A and B, but it might be shown by C, if it affected his interests.
100. Saving of provisions of Indian Succession Act relating to wills.––Nothing in this Chapter
contained shall be taken to affect any of the provisions of the Indian Succession Act,
1865 1(10 of 1865) as to the construction of wills.
PART III
PRODUCTION AND EFFECT OF EVIDENCE
CHAPTER VII. –– OF THE BURDEN OF PROOF
101. Burden of proof. –– Whoever desires any Court to give judgment as to any legal right or
liability dependent on the existence of facts which he asserts, must prove that those facts exist. When a
person is bound to prove the existence of any fact, it is said that the burden of proof lies on that person.
Illustrations
(a) A desires a Court to give judgment that B shall be punished for a crime which A says B has committed. A
must prove that B has committed the crime.
1. See now the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), Pt. VI, Ch. VI.