12
(b) A is accused of waging war against the 1[Government of India] by taking part in an armed insurrection in
which property is destroyed, troops are attacked and gaols are broken open. The occurrence of these facts is
relevant, as forming part of the general transaction, though A may not have been present at all of them.
(c) A sues B for a libel contained in a letter forming part of a correspondence. Letters between the parties
relating to the subject out of which the libel arose, and forming part of the correspondence in which it is
contained, are relevant facts, though they do not contain the libel itself.
(d) The question is, whether certain goods ordered from B were delivered to A. The goods were delivered to
several intermediate persons successively. Each delivery is a relevant fact.
7. Facts which are the occasion, cause or effect of facts in issue. –– Facts which are the occasion,
cause or effect, immediate or otherwise, of relevant facts, or facts in issue, or which constitute the state of
things under which they happened, or which afforded an opportunity for their occurrence or transaction,
are relevant.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A robbed B.
The facts that, shortly before the robbery, B went to a fair with money in his possession, and that he showed it,
or mentioned the fact that he had it, to third persons, are relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A murdered B.
Marks on the ground, produced by a struggle at or near the place where the murder was committed, are relevant
facts.
(c) The question is, whether A poisoned B.
The state of B’s health before the symptoms ascribed to poison, and habits of B, known to A, which afforded an
opportunity for the administration of poison, are relevant facts.
8. Motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct.––Any fact is relevant which shows or
constitutes a motive or preparation for any fact in issue or relevant fact.
The conduct of any party, or of any agent to any party, to any suit or proceeding, in reference to such
suit or proceeding, or in reference to any fact in issue therein or relevant thereto, and the conduct of any
person an offence against whom is the subject of any proceeding, is relevant, if such conduct influences
or is influenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact, and whether it was previous or subsequent thereto.
Explanation 1.––The word “conduct” in this section does not include statements, unless those
statements accompany and explain acts other than statements; but this explanation is not to affect the
relevancy of statements under any other section of this Act.
Explanation 2.––When the conduct of any person is relevant, any statement made to him or in his
presence and hearing, which affects such conduct, is relevant.
Illustrations
(a) A is tried for the murder of B.
The facts that A murdered C, that B knew that A had murdered C, and that B had tried to extort money
from A by threatening to make his knowledge public, are relevant.
(b) A sues B upon a bond for the payment of money, B denies the making of the bond.
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Queen”.