39
Provided that such document is substantially in the form and purports to be executed in the manner
directed by law in that behalf.
The Court shall also presume that any officer by whom any such document purports to be signed or
certified, held, when he signed it, the official character which he claims in such paper.
80. Presumption as to documents produced as record of evidence.––Whenever any document is
produced before any Court, purporting to be a record or memorandum of the evidence, or of any part of
the evidence, given by a witness in a judicial proceeding or before any officer authorized by law to take
such evidence or to be a statement or confession by any prisoner or accused person, taken in accordance
with law, and purporting to be signed by any Judge or Magistrate, or by any such officer as aforesaid, the
Court shall presume––
that the document is genuine; that any statements as to the circumstances under which it was
taken, purporting to be made by the person signing it, are true, and that such evidence, statement or
confession was duly taken.
81. Presumption as to Gazettes, newspapers, private Acts of Parliament and other
documents. –– The Court shall presume the genuineness of every document purporting to be the London
Gazette or 1[any Official Gazette, or the Government Gazette] of any colony, dependency or possession
of the British Crown, or to be a newspaper or journal, or to be a copy of a private Act of Parliament 2[of
the United Kingdom] printed by the Queen’s Printer, and of every document purporting to be a document
directed by any law to be kept by any person, if such document is kept substantially in the form required
by law and is produced from proper custody.
3[81A. Presumption as to Gazettes in electronic forms.––The Court shall presume the genuineness
of every electronic record purporting to be the Official Gazette, or purporting to be electronic record
directed by any law to be kept by any person, if such electronic record is kept substantially in the form
required by law and is produced from proper custody.]
82. Presumption as to document admissible in England without proof of seal or signature. ––
When any document is produced before any Court, purporting to be a document which, by the law in
force for the time being in England or Ireland, would be admissible in proof of any particular in any Court
of Justice in England or Ireland, without proof of the seal or stamp or signature authenticating it, or of the
judicial or official character claimed by the person by whom it purports to be signed, the Court shall
presume that such seal, stamp or signature is genuine, and that the person signing it held, at the time when
he signed it, the judicial or official character which he claims,
and the document shall be admissible for the same purpose for which it would be admissible in
England or Ireland.
83. Presumption as to maps or plans made by authority of Government.––The Court shall
presume that maps or plans purporting to be made by the authority of 4[the Central Government or any
State Government] were so made, and are accurate; but maps or plans made for the purposes of any cause
must be proved to be accurate.
84. Presumption as to collections of laws and reports of decisions. –– The Court shall presume the
genuineness of every book purporting to be printed or published under the authority of the Government of
any country, and to contain any of the laws of that country,
and of every book purporting to contain reports of decisions of the Courts of such country.
1. Subs by the A.O. 1937, for “the Gazette of India, or the Government Gazette of any L.G., or”.
2. Ins. by the A.O. 1950.
3. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92, and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
4. The original word “Government” has successively been amended by the A.O. 1937, the A.O. 1948, Act 40 of
1949 and the A.O. 1950 to read as above.