34
(f) when the original is a document of which a certified copy is permitted by this Act, or by any
other law in force in 1[India] to be given in evidence;
(g) when the originals consist of numerous accounts or other documents which cannot
conveniently be examined in Court, and the fact to be proved is the general result of the whole
collection.
In cases (a), (c) and (d), any secondary evidence of the contents of the document is admissible.
In case (b), the written admission is admissible.
In case (e) or (f), a certified copy of the document, but no other kind of secondary evidence, is
admissible.
In case (g), evidence may be given as to the general result of the documents by any person who
has examined them, and who is skilled in the examination of such documents.
2[65A. Special provisions as to evidence relating to electronic record. ––The contents of electronic
records may be proved in accordance with the provisions of section 65B.
65B. Admissibility of electronic records. –– (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,
any information contained in an electronic record which is printed on a paper, stored, recorded or copied
in optical or magnetic media produced by a computer (hereinafter referred to as the computer output)
shall be deemed to be also a document, if the conditions mentioned in this section are satisfied in relation
to the information and computer in question and shall be admissible in any proceedings, without further
proof or production of the original, as evidence or any contents of the original or of any fact stated therein
of which direct evidence would be admissible.
(2) The conditions referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of a computer output shall be the
following, namely: ––
(a) the computer output containing the information was produced by the computer during the
period over which the computer was used regularly to store or process information for the
purposes of any activities regularly carried on over that period by the person having lawful
control over the use of the computer;
(b) during the said period, information of the kind contained in the electronic record or of the
kind from which the information so contained is derived was regularly fed into the computer in
the ordinary course of the said activities;
(c) throughout the material part of the said period, the computer was operating properly or, if
not, then in respect of any period in which it was not operating properly or was out of operation
during that part of the period, was not such as to affect the electronic record or the accuracy of its
contents; and
(d) the information contained in the electronic record reproduces or is derived from such
information fed into the computer in the ordinary course of the said activities.
(3) Where over any period, the function of storing or processing information for the purposes of
any activities regularly carried on over that period as mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (2) was
regularly performed by computers, whether––
(a) by a combination of computers operating over that period; or
1. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for “the States”.
2. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92 and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).