23
(4) or gives opinion as to public right or custom, or matters of general interest.––When the
statement gives the opinion of any such person, as to the existence of any public right or custom or matter
of public or general interest, of the existence of which, if it existed, he would have been likely to be
aware, and when such statement was made before any controversy as to such right, custom or matter
had arisen.
(5) or relates to existence of relationship.––When the statement relates to the existence of any
relationship 1[by blood, marriage or adoption] between persons as to whose relationship 1[by blood,
marriage or adoption] the person making the statement had special means of knowledge, and when the
statement was made before the question in dispute was raised.
(6) or is made in will or deed relating to family affairs.––When the statement relates to the
existence of any relationship 1[by blood, marriage or adoption] between persons deceased, and is made in
any will or deed relating to the affairs of the family to which any such deceased person belonged, or in
any family pedigree, or upon any tombstone, family portrait or other thing on which such statements are
usually made, and when such statement was made before the question in dispute was raised.
(7) or in document relating to transaction mentioned in section 13, clause (a).––When the
statement is contained in any deed, will or other document which relates to any such transaction as is
mentioned in section 13, clause (a).
(8) or is made by several persons and expresses feelings relevant to matter in question.––When
the statement was made by a number of persons, and expressed feelings or impressions on their part
relevant to the matter in question.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A was murdered by B; or
A dies of injuries received in a transaction in the course of which she was ravished. The question is
whether she was ravished by B; or
The question is, whether A was killed by B under such circumstances that a suit would lie against B by A’s
widow.
Statements made by A as to the cause of his or her death, referring respectively to the murder, the rape and
the actionable wrong under consideration, are relevant facts.
(b) The question is as to the date of A’s birth.
An entry in the diary of a deceased surgeon regularly kept in the course of business, stating that, on a given day
he attended A’s mother and delivered her of a son, is a relevant fact.
(c) The question is, whether A was in Calcutta on a given day.
A statement in the diary of a deceased solicitor, regularly kept in the course of business, that on a given day
the solicitor attended A at a place mentioned, in Calcutta, for the purpose of conferring with him upon specified
business, is a relevant fact.
(d) The question is, whether a ship sailed from Bombay harbour on a given day.
A letter written by a deceased member of a merchant’s firm by which she was chartered to their correspondents
in London, to whom the cargo was consigned, stating that the ship sailed on a given day from Bombay harbour, is a
relevant fact.
1. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 2.