28
(b) The question is, whether A, at the time of doing a certain act, was, by reason of unsoundness of
mind, incapable of knowing the nature of the act, or that he was doing what was either wrong or contrary
to law.
The opinions of experts upon the question whether the symptoms exhibited by A commonly show
unsoundness of mind, and whether such unsoundness of mind usually renders persons incapable of
knowing the nature of the acts which they do, or of knowing that what they do is either wrong or contrary
to law, are relevant.
(c) The question is, whether a certain document was written by A. Another document is produced
which is proved or admitted to have been written by A.
The opinions of experts on the question whether the two documents were written by the same person
or by different persons, are relevant.
1[45A. Opinion of Examiner of Electronic Evidence.—When in a proceeding, the court has to form
an opinion on any matter relating to any information transmitted or stored in any computer resource or
any other electronic or digital form, the opinion of the Examiner of Electronic Evidence referred to in
section 79A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000), is a relevant fact.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, an Examiner of Electronic Evidence shall be an
expert.]
46. Facts bearing upon opinions of experts.––Facts, not otherwise relevant, are relevant if they
support or are inconsistent with the opinions of experts, when such opinions are relevant.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A was poisoned by a certain poison.
The fact that other persons, who were poisoned by that poison, exhibited certain symptoms which
experts affirm or deny to be the symptoms of that poison, is relevant.
(b) The question is, whether an obstruction to a harbour is caused by a certain sea-wall.
The fact that other harbours similarly situated in other respects, but where there were no such
sea-walls, began to be obstructed at about the same time, is relevant.
47. Opinion as to hand-writing, when relevant.––When the Court has to form an opinion as to the
person by whom any document was written or signed, the opinion of any person acquainted with the
handwriting of the person by whom it is supposed to be written or signed that it was or was not written or
signed by that person, is a relevant fact.
Explanation.––A person is said to be acquainted with the hand-writing of another person when he has
seen that person write, or when he has received documents purporting to be written by that person in
answer to documents written by himself or under his authority and addressed to that person, or when, in
the ordinary course of business, documents purporting to be written by that person have been habitually
submitted to him.
1. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, s. 52 (w.e.f. 27-10-2009).