59
158. What matters may be proved in connection with proved statement relevant under section
32 or 33. ––Whenever any statement, relevant under section 32 or 33, is proved, all matters may be
proved either in order to contradict or to corroborate it, or in order to impeach or confirm the credit of the
person by whom it was made, which might have been proved if that person had been called as a witness
and had denied upon cross-examination the truth of the matter suggested.
159. Refreshing memory.–– A witness may, while under examination, refresh his memory by
referring to any writing made by himself at the time of the transaction concerning which he is questioned,
or so soon afterwards that the Court considers it likely that the transaction was at that time fresh in his
memory.
The witness may also refer to any such writing made by any other person, and read by the witness
within the time aforesaid, if when he read it he knew it to be correct.
When witness may use copy of document to refresh memory. –– Whenever a witness may refresh
his memory by reference to any document, he may, with the permission of the Court, refer to a copy of
such document:
Provided the Court be satisfied that there is sufficient reason for the non-production of the original.
An expert may refresh his memory by reference to professional treatises.
160. Testimony to facts stated in document mentioned in section 159.––A witness may also testify
to facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159, although he has no specific
recollection of the facts themselves, if he is sure that the facts were correctly recorded in the document.
Illustration
A book-keeper may testify to facts recorded by him in books regularly kept in the course of business,
if he knows that the books were correctly kept, although he has forgotten the particular transactions
entered.
1161. Right of adverse party as to writing used to refresh memory. –– Any writing referred to
under the provisions of the two last preceding sections must be produced and shown to the adverse party
if he requires it; such party may, if he pleases, cross-examine the witness thereupon.
162. Production of documents. –– A witness summoned to produce a document shall, if it is in his
possession or power, bring it to Court, notwithstanding any objection which there may be to its
production or to its admissibility. The validity of any such objection shall be decided on by the Court.
The Court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document, unless it refers to matters of State, or take other
evidence to enable it to determine on its admissibility.
Translation of documents. ––If for such a purpose it is necessary to cause any document to be
translated, the Court may, if it thinks fit, direct the translator to keep the contents secret, unless the
document is to be given in evidence and, if the interpreter disobeys such direction, he shall be held to
have committed an offence under section 166 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
163. Giving, as evidence, of document called for and produced on notice. ––When a party calls
for a document which he has given the other party notice to produce, and such document is produced and
inspected by the party calling for its production, he is bound to give it as evidence if the party producing it
requires him to do so.
1. As to the application of s. 161 to police diaries, see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974), s. 172.