18
The fact that A was in the habit of shooting at people with intent to murder them is irrelevant.
(p) A is tried for a crime.
The fact that he said something indicating an intention to commit that particular crime is relevant.
The fact that he said something indicating a general disposition to commit crimes of that class is
irrelevant.
15. Facts bearing on question whether act was accidental or intentional.––When there is a
question whether an act was accidental or intentional, 1[or done with a particular knowledge or intention,]
the fact that such act formed part of a series of similar occurrences, in each of which the person doing the
act was concerned, is relevant.
Illustrations
(a) A is accused of burning down his house in order to obtain money for which it is insured.
The facts that A lived in several houses successively each of which he insured, in each of which a fire occurred,
and after each of which fires A received payment from a different insurance office, are relevant, as tending to show
that the fires were not accidental.
(b) A is employed to receive money from the debtors of B. It is A’s duty to make entries in a book showing the
amounts received by him. He makes an entry showing that on a particular occasion he received less than he really
did receive.
The question is, whether this false entry was accidental or intentional.
The facts that other entries made by A in the same book are false, and that the false entry is in each case in
favour of A, are relevant.
(c) A is accused of fraudulently delivering to Ba counterfeit rupee.
The question is, whether the delivery of the rupee was accidental.
The facts that, soon before or soon after the delivery to B, A delivered counterfeit rupees to C, D and E are
relevant, as showing that the delivery to B was not accidental
16. Existence of course of business when relevant.––When there is a question whether a particular
act was done, the existence of any course of business, according to which it naturally would have been
done, is a relevant fact.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether a particular letter was despatched.
The facts that it was the ordinary course of business for all letters put in a certain place to be carried to the post,
and that particular letter was put in that place are relevant.
(b) The question is, whether a particular letter reached A. The facts that it was posted in due course, and was not
returned through the Dead Letter Office, are relevant.
1. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, s. 2.