60
164. Using, as evidence, of document production of which was refused on notice.–– When a party
refuses to produce a document which he has had notice to produce, he cannot afterwards use the
document as evidence without the consent of the other party or the order of the Court.
Illustration
A sues B on an agreement and gives B notice to produce it. At the trial, A calls for the document and
B refuses to produce it. A gives secondary evidence of its contents. B seeks to produce the document
itself to contradict the secondary evidence given by A, or in order to show that the agreement is not
stamped. He cannot do so.
165. Judge’s power to put questions or order production. –– The Judge may, in order to discover
or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any
witness, or of the parties about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may order the production of any
document or thing; and neither the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any objection to any
such question or order, nor, without the leave of the Court, to cross-examine any witness upon any answer
given in reply to any such question:
Provided that the judgment must be based upon facts declared by this Act to be relevant, and duly
proved:
Provided also that this section shall not authorize any Judge to compel any witness to answer any
question, or to produce any document which such witness would be entitled to refuse to answer or
produce under sections 121 to 131, both inclusive, if the question were asked or the document were called
for by the adverse party; nor shall the Judge ask any question which it would be improper for any other
person to ask under section 148 or 149; nor shall he dispense with primary evidence of any document,
except in the cases hereinbefore excepted.
166. Power of jury or assessors to put questions. –– In cases tried by jury or with assessors, the
jury or assessors may put any questions to the witnesses, through or by leave of the Judge, which the
Judge himself might put and which he considers proper.
CHAPTER XI–– OF IMPROPER ADMISSION AND REJECTION OF EVIDENCE
167. No new trial for improper admission or rejection of evidence. –– The improper admission or
rejection of evidence shall not be ground of itself for a new trial or reversal of any decision in any case, if
it shall appear to the Court before which such objection is raised that, independently of the evidence
objected to and admitted, there was sufficient evidence to justify the decision, or that, if the rejected
evidence had been received, it ought not to have varied the decision.
THE SCHEDULE. –– [Enactments repealed.] Rep. by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), s. 2 and
the Schedule.