14
The fact that he said he had been robbed, without making any complaint, is not relevant, as conduct
under this section, though it may be relevant as a dying declaration under section 32, clause (1), or as
corroborative evidence under section 157.
9. Facts necessary to explain or introduce relevant facts.––Facts necessary to explain or introduce
a fact in issue or relevant fact, or which support or rebut an inference suggested by a fact in issue or
relevant fact, or which establish the identity of any thing or person whose identity is relevant, or fix the
time or place at which any fact in issue or relevant fact happened, or which show the relation of parties by
whom any such fact was transacted, are relevant in so far as they are necessary for that purpose.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether a given document is the will of A.
The state of A’s property and of his family at the date of the alleged will may be relevant facts.
(b) A sues B for a libel imputing disgraceful conduct to A; B affirms that the matter alleged to be libellous is
true.
The position and relations of the parties at the time when the libel was published may be relevant facts as
introductory to the facts in issue.
The particulars of a dispute between A and B about a matter unconnected with the alleged libel are irrelevant,
though the fact that there was a dispute may be relevant if it affected the relations between A and B.
(c) A is accused of a crime.
The fact that, soon after the commission of the crime, A absconded from his house, is relevant under section 8,
as conduct subsequent to and affected by facts in issue.
The fact that, at the time when he left home, he had sudden and urgent business at the place to which he went, is
relevant, as tending to explain the fact that he left home suddenly.
The details of the business on which he left are not relevant, except in so far as they are necessary to show that
the business was sudden and urgent.
(d) A sues B for inducing C to break a contract of service made by him with A. C, on leaving A’s service, says
to A –– “I am leaving you because B has made me a better offer.” This statement is a relevant fact as explanatory of
C’s conduct, which is relevant as a fact in issue.
(e) A, accused of theft, is seen to give the stolen property to B, who is seen to give it to A’s wife. B says as he
delivers it––“A says you are to hide this.” B’s statement is relevant as explanatory of a fact which is part of the
transaction.
(f) A is tried for a riot and is proved to have marched at the head of a mob. The cries of the mob are relevant as
explanatory of the nature of the transaction.
10. Things said or done by conspirator in reference to common design.––Where there is reasonable
ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an actionable
wrong, anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to their common intention, after
the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them, is a relevant fact as against each of the
persons believed to be so conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for
the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it.