24
(e) The question is, whether rent was paid to A for certain land.
A letter from A’s deceased agent to A, saying that he had received the rent on A’s account and held it at A’s
orders is a relevant fact.
(f) The question is, whether A and B were legally married.
The statement of a deceased clergyman that he married them under such circumstances that the celebration
would be a crime, is relevant.
(g) The question is, whether A, a person who cannot be found, wrote a letter on a certain day. The fact that a
letter written by him is dated on that day is relevant.
(h) The question is, what was the cause of the wreck of a ship.
A protest made by the Captain, whose attendance cannot be procured, is a relevant fact.
(i) The question is, whether a given road is a public way.
A statement by A, a deceased headman of the village, that the road was public, is a relevant fact.
(j) The question is, what was the price of grain on a certain day in a particular market.
A statement of the price, made by a deceased banya in the ordinary course of his business, is a relevant fact.
(k) The question is, whether A, who is dead, was the father of B.
A statement by A that B was his son, is a relevant fact.
(l) The question is, what was the date of the birth of A.
A letter from A’s deceased father to a friend, announcing the birth of A on a given day, is a relevant fact.
(m) The question is, whether, and when, A and B were married.
An entry in a memorandum book by C, the deceased father of B, of his daughter’s marriage with A on a given
date, is a relevant fact.
(n) A sues B for a libel expressed in a painted caricature exposed in a shop window. The question is as to the
similarity of the caricature and its libellous character. The remarks of a crowd of spectators on these points may be
proved.
33. Relevancy of certain evidence for proving, in subsequent proceeding, the truth of facts
therein stated.––Evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceeding, or before any person authorised
by law to take it, is relevant for the purpose of proving, in a subsequent judicial proceeding, or in a later
stage of the same judicial proceeding, the truth of the facts which it states, when the witness is dead or
cannot be found, or is incapable of giving evidence, or is kept out of the way by the adverse party, or if
his presence cannot be obtained without an amount of delay or expense which, under the circumstances of
the case, the Court considers unreasonable:
Provided ––
that the proceeding was between the same parties or their representatives in interest; that the adverse
party in the first proceeding had the right and opportunity to cross-examine;
that the questions in issue were substantially the same in the first as in the second proceeding.
Explanation.––A criminal trial or inquiry shall be deemed to be a proceeding between the prosecutor
and the accused within the meaning of this section.