58
(1) By the evidence of persons who testify that they, from their knowledge of the witness,
believe him to be unworthy of credit;
(2) By proof that the witness has been bribed, or has 1[accepted] the offer of a bribe, or has
received any other corrupt inducement to give his evidence;
(3) By proof of former statements inconsistent with any part of his evidence which is liable to be
contradicted;
2*
*
*
*
*
Explanation. –– A witness declaring another witness to be unworthy of credit may not, upon his
examination-in-chief, give reasons for his belief, but he may be asked his reasons in cross-examination,
and the answers which he gives cannot be contradicted, though, if they are false, he may afterwards be
charged with giving false evidence.
Illustrations
(a) A sues B for the price of goods sold and delivered to B.
C says that he delivered the goods to B.
Evidence is offered to show that, on a previous occasion, he said that he had not delivered goods to B.
The evidence is admissible.
(b) A is indicted for the murder of B.
C says that B, when dying, declared that A had given B the wound of which he died.
Evidence is offered to show that, on a previous occasion, C said that the wound was not given by A or
in his presence.
The evidence is admissible.
156. Questions tending to corroborate evidence of relevant fact, admissible. –– When a witness
whom it is intended to corroborate gives evidence of any relevant fact, he may be questioned as to any
other circumstances which he observed at or near to the time or place at which such relevant fact
occurred, if the Court is of opinion that such circumstances, if proved, would corroborate the testimony of
the witness as to the relevant fact which he testifies.
Illustration
A, an accomplice, gives an account of a robbery in which he took part. He describes various
incidents unconnected with the robbery which occurred on his way to and from the place where it was
committed.
Independent evidence of these facts may be given in order to corroborate his evidence as to the
robbery itself.
157. Former statements of witness may be proved to corroborate later testimony as to same
fact. –– In order to corroborate the testimony of a witness, any former statement made by such witness
relating to the same fact, at or about the time when the fact took place, or before any authority legally
competent to investigate the fact, may be proved.
1. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 11, for “had”
2. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, s. 3 (w.e.f. 31-12-2002).