41
Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be a representative of
the 1[Central Government] 2[in and for the country] comprising that territory or place].
87. Presumption as to books, maps and charts. –– The Court may presume that any book to which
it may refer for information on matters of public or general interest, and that any published map or chart,
the statements of which are relevant facts, and which is produced for its inspection, was written and
published by the person, and at the time and place, by whom or at which it purports to have been written
or published.
88. Presumption as to telegraphic messages. –– The Court may presume that a message, forwarded
from a telegraph office to the person to whom such message purports to be addressed, corresponds with a
message delivered for transmission at the office from which the message purports to be sent; but the
Court shall not make any presumption as to the person by whom such message was delivered for
transmission.
3[88A. Presumption as to electronic messages. –– The Court may presume that an electronic
message, forwarded by the originator through an electronic mail server to the addressee to whom the
message purports to be addressed corresponds with the message as fed into his computer for transmission;
but the Court shall not make any presumption as to the person by whom such message was sent.
Explanation. –– For the purposes of this section, the expressions “addressee” and “originator” shall
have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (b) and (za) of sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000).]
89. Presumption as to due execution, etc., of documents not produced. ––The Court shall presume
that every document, called for and not produced after notice to produce, was attested, stamped and
executed in the manner required by law.
90. Presumption as to documents thirty years old. –– Where any document, purporting or proved
to be thirty years old, is produced from any custody which the Court in the particular case considers
proper, the Court may presume that the signature and every other part of such document, which purports
to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in that person’s handwriting, and, in the case of a
document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports
to be executed and attested.
Explanation.–– Documents are said to be in proper custody if they are in the place in which, and
under the care of the person with whom, they would naturally be; but no custody is improper if it is
proved to have had a legitimate origin, or if the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render
such an origin probable.
This explanation applies also to section 81.
Illustrations
(a) A has been in possession of landed property for a long time. He produces from his custody deeds relating to
the land showing his titles to it. The custody is proper.
(b) A produces deeds relating to landed property of which he is the mortgagee. The mortgagor is in possession.
The custody is proper.
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “G. of I.”
2. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for “in and for that Part B State or country”.
3. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92 and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).