42
(c) A, a connection of B, produces deeds relating to lands in B’s possession, which were deposited
with him by B for safe custody. The custody is proper.
1[90A. Presumption as to electronic records five years old. –– Where any electronic record,
purporting or proved to be five years old, is produced from any custody which the Court in the particular
case considers proper, the Court may presume that the 2[electronic signature] which purports to be the
2[electronic signature] of any particular person was so affixed by him or any person authorised by him in
this behalf.
Explanation. –– Electronic records are said to be in proper custody if they are in the place in which,
and under the care of the person with whom, they naturally be; but no custody is improper if it is proved
to have had a legitimate origin, or the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an
origin probable.
This Explanation applies also to section 81A.]
CHAPTER VI. –– OF THE EXCLUSION OF ORAL BY DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE
91. Evidence of terms of contracts, grants and other dispositions of property reduced to form of
document. –– When the terms of a contract, or of a grant, or of any other disposition of property, have
been reduced to the form of a document, and in all cases in which any matter is required by law to be
reduced to the form of a document, no evidence shall be given in proof of the terms of such contract,
grant or other disposition of property, or of such matter, except the document itself, or secondary
evidence of its contents in cases in which secondary evidence is admissible under the provisions
hereinbefore contained.
Exception 1.––When a public officer is required by law to be appointed in writing, and when it is
shown that any particular person has acted as such officer, the writing by which he is appointed need not
be proved.
Exception 2.–– Wills 3[admitted to probate in 4[India]] may be proved by the probate.
Explanation 1.––This section applies equally to cases in which the contracts, grants or dispositions of
property referred to are contained in one document, and to cases in which they are contained in more
documents than one.
Explanation 2.–– Where there are more originals than one, one original only need be proved.
Explanation 3. –– The statement, in any document whatever, of a fact other than the facts referred to
in this section, shall not preclude the admission of oral evidence as to the same fact.
Illustrations
(a) If a contract be contained in several letters, all the letters in which it is contained must be proved.
(b) If a contract is contained in a bill of exchange, the bill of exchange must be proved.
(c) If a bill of exchange is drawn in a set of three, one only need be proved.
(d) A contracts, in writing, with B, for the delivery of indigo upon certain terms. The contract mentions the fact
that B had paid A the price of other indigo contracted for verbally on another occasion.
1. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92 and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
2. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, s. 52, for “Digital Signature” (w.e.f. 27.10.2009).
3. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 7, for “under the Indian Succession Act”.
4. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for “the States”.