26
forms part of a longer statement, or of a conversation or part of an isolated document, or is contained in a
document which forms part of a book, or is contained in part of electronic record or of a connected series
of letters or papers, evidence shall be given of so much and no more of the statement, conversation,
document, electronic record, book or series of letters or papers as the Court considers necessary in that
particular case to the full understanding of the nature and effect of the statement, and of the circumstances
under which it was made.]
JUDGMENTS OF COURTS OF JUSTICE WHEN RELEVANT
40. Previous judgments relevant to bar a second suit or trial.––The existence of any judgment,
order or decree which by law prevents any Court from taking cognizance of a suit or holding a trial, is a
relevant fact when the question is whether such Court ought to take cognizance of such suit or to hold
such trial.
41. Relevancy of certain judgments in probate, etc., jurisdiction.––A final judgment, order or
decree of a competent Court, in the exercise of probate, matrimonial, admiralty or insolvency jurisdiction,
which confers upon or takes away from any person any legal character, or which declares any person to
be entitled to any such character, or to be entitled to any specific thing, not as against any specified person
but absolutely, is relevant when the existence of any such legal character, or the title of any such person to
any such thing, is relevant.
Such judgment, order or decree is conclusive proof ––
that any legal character which it confers accrued at the time when such judgment, order or decree
came into operation;
that any legal character, to which it declares any such person to be entitled, accrued to that person at
the time when such judgment 1[order or decree] declares it to have accrued to that person;
that any legal character which it takes away from any such person ceased at the time from which such
judgment, 1[order or decree] declared that it had ceased or should cease;
and that anything to which it declares any person to be so entitled was the property of that person at
the time from which such judgment, 1[order or decree] declares that it had been or should be his property.
42. Relevancy and effect of judgments, orders or decrees, other than those mentioned in
section 41. –– Judgments, orders or decrees other than those mentioned in section 41 are relevant if they
relate to matters of a public nature relevant to the enquiry; but such judgments, orders or decrees are not
conclusive proof of that which they state.
Illustration
A sues B for trespass on his land. B alleges the existence of a public right of way over the land, which A denies.
The existence of a decree in favour of the defendant, in a suit by A against C for a trespass on the same land, in
which C alleged the existence of the same right of way, is relevant, but it is not conclusive proof that the right of
way exists.
43. Judgments, etc., other than those mentioned in sections 40, 41 and 42, when relevant.––
Judgments, orders or decrees, other than those mentioned in sections 40, 41 and 42, are irrelevant, unless
the existence of such judgment, order or decree is a fact in issue, or is relevant under some other provision
of this Act.
1. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 3.