46
(b) A desires a Court to give judgment that he is entitled to certain land in the possession of B, by
reason of facts which he asserts, and which B denies, to be true. A must prove the existence of those facts.
102. On whom burden of proof lies. –– The burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that
person who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side.
Illustrations
(a) A sues B for land of which B is in possession, and which, as A asserts, was left to A by the will of C, B’s
father.
If no evidence were given on either side, B would be entitled to retain his possession.
Therefore the burden of proof is on A.
(b) A sues B for money due on a bond.
The execution of the bond is admitted, but B says that it was obtained by fraud, which A denies.
If no evidence were given on either side, A would succeed, as the bond is not disputed and the fraud is not
proved.
Therefore the burden of proof is on B.
103. Burden of proof as to particular fact. ––The burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on
that person who wishes the Court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided by any law that the proof
of that fact shall lie on any particular person.
Illustrations
1[(a)] A prosecutes B for theft, and wishes the Court to believe that B admitted the theft to C. A must prove the
admission.
(b) B wishes the Court to believe that, at the time in question, he was elsewhere. He must prove it.
104. Burden of proving fact to be proved to make evidence admissible. –– The burden of proving
any fact necessary to be proved in order to enable any person to give evidence of any other fact is on the
person who wishes to give such evidence.
Illustrations
(a) A wishes to prove a dying declaration by B. A must prove B’s death.
(b) A wishes to prove, by secondary evidence, the contents of a lost document.
A must prove that the document has been lost.
105. Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions. ––When a person is
accused of any offence, the burden of proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any
of the General Exceptions in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or within any special exception or
proviso contained in any other part of the same Code, or in any law defining the offence, is upon him, and
the Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances.
Illustrations
(a) A, accused of murder, alleges that, by reason of unsoundness of mind, he did not know the nature of the act.
The burden of proof is on A.
(b) A, accused of murder, alleges that, by grave and sudden provocation, he was deprived of the
power of self-control.
1. See, in the Act as published in Gazette of India, 1872, Pt. IV, there is no illustration (b).