53
1[pleader], attorney or vakil as a witness, he shall be deemed to have consented to such disclosure only if
he questions such barrister, attorney or vakil on matters which, but for such question, he would not be at
liberty to disclose.
129. Confidential communications with legal advisers. –– No one shall be compelled to disclose to
the Court any confidential communication which has taken place between him and his legal professional
adviser, unless he offers himself as a witness, in which case he may be compelled to disclose any such
communications as may appear to the Court necessary to be known in order to explain any evidence
which he has given, but no others.
130. Production of title-deeds of witness not a party. –– No witness who is not a party to a suit
shall be compelled to produce his title-deeds to any property, or any document in virtue of which he holds
any property as pledge or mortgagee or any document the production of which might tend to criminate
him, unless he has agreed in writing to produce them with the person seeking the production of such
deeds or some person through whom he claims.
2[131. Production of documents or electronic records which another person, having possession,
could refuse to produce. –– No one shall be compelled to produce documents in his possession or
electronic records under his control, which any other person would be entitled to refuse to produce if they
were in his possession or control, unless such last-mentioned person consents to their production.]
132. Witness not excused from answering on ground that answer will criminate. –– A witness
shall not be excused from answering any question as to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any
suit or in any civil or criminal proceeding, upon the ground that the answer to such question will
criminate, or may tend directly or indirectly to criminate, such witness, or that it will expose, or tend
directly or indirectly to expose, such witness to a penalty or forfeiture of any kind:
Proviso. –– Provided that no such answer, which a witness shall be compelled to give, shall subject
him to any arrest or prosecution, or be proved against him in any criminal proceeding, except a
prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer.
133. Accomplice. –– An accomplice shall be a competent witness against an accused person; and a
conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice.
134. Number of witnesses. –– No particular number of witnesses shall in any case be required for the
proof of any fact.
CHAPTER X. –– OF THE EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES
135. Order of production and examination of witnesses. –– The order in which witnesses are
produced and examined shall be regulated by the law and practice for the time being relating to civil and
criminal procedure respectively, and, in the absence of any such law, by the discretion of the Court.
136. Judge to decide as to admissibility of evidence. ––When either party proposes to give evidence
of any fact, the Judge may ask the party proposing to give the evidence in what manner the alleged fact, if
proved, would be relevant; and the Judge shall admit the evidence if he thinks that the fact, if proved,
would be relevant, and not otherwise.
If the fact proposed to be proved is one of which evidence is admissible only upon proof of some
other fact, such last-mentioned fact must be proved before evidence is given of the fact first-mentioned,
unless the party undertakes to give proof of such fact, and the Court is satisfied with such undertaking.
1. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 10.
2. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92 and the Second Schedule, for “Section 131” (17-10-2000).