44
(d) A enters into a written contract with B to work certain mines, the property of B, upon certain
terms. A was induced to do so by a misrepresentation of B’s as to their value. This fact may be proved.
(e) A institutes a suit against B for the specific performance of a contract, and also prays that the
contract may be reformed as to one of its provisions, as that provision was inserted in it by mistake. A
may prove that such a mistake was made as would by law entitle him to have the contract reformed.
(f) A orders goods of B by a letter in which nothing is said as to the time of payment, and accepts the
goods on delivery. B sues A for the price. A may show that the goods were supplied on credit for a term
still unexpired.
(g) A sells Ba horse and verbally warrants him sound. A gives Ba paper in these words: “Bought of
Aa horse of Rs. 500”. B may prove the verbal warranty.
(h) A hires lodgings of B, and gives Ba card on which is written ––“Rooms, Rs. 200 a month.” A
may prove a verbal agreement that these terms were to include partial board.
A hires lodgings of B for a year, and a regularly stamped agreement, drawn up by an attorney, is
made between them. It is silent on the subject of board. A may not prove that board was included in the
term verbally.
(i) A applies to B for a debt due to A by sending a receipt for the money. B keeps the receipt and does
not send the money. In a suit for the amount, A may prove this.
(j) A and B make a contract in writing to take effect upon the happening of a certain contingency.
The writing is left with B, who sues A upon it. A may show the circumstances under which it was
delivered.
93. Exclusion of evidence to explain or amend ambiguous document. –– When the language used
in a document is, on its face, ambiguous or defective, evidence may not be given of facts which would
show its meaning or supply its defects.
Illustrations
(a) A agrees, in writing, to sell a horse to B for “Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 1,500”. Evidence cannot be given to
show which price was to be given.
(b) A deed contains blanks. Evidence cannot be given of facts which would show how they were
meant to be filled.
94. Exclusion of evidence against application of document to existing facts. –– When language
used in a document is plain in itself, and when it applies accurately to existing facts, evidence may not be
given to show that it was not meant to apply to such facts.
Illustration
A sells to B, by deed, “my estate at Rampur containing 100 bighas”. A has an estate at Rampur containing
100 bighas. Evidence may not be given of the fact that the estate meant to be sold was one situated at a different
place and of a different size.
95. Evidence as to document unmeaning reference to existing facts. –– When language used in a
document is plain in itself, but is unmeaning in reference to existing facts, evidence may be given to show
that it was used in a peculiar sense.
Illustration
A sells to B, by deed, “my house in Calcutta”.
A had no house in Calcutta, but it appears that he had a house at Howrah, of which B had been in possession
since the execution of the deed.
These facts may be proved to show that the deed related to the house at Howrah.