13
The fact that, at the time when the bond was alleged to be made, B required money for a particular
purpose, is relevant.
(c) A is tried for the murder of B by poison.
The fact that, before the death of B, A procured poison similar to that which was administered to B, is
relevant.
(d) The question is, whether a certain document is the will of A.
The facts that, not long before, the date of the alleged will, A made inquiry into matters to which the
provisions of the alleged will relate; that he consulted vakils in reference to making the will, and that he
caused drafts of other wills to be prepared, of which he did not approve, are relevant.
(e) A is accused of a crime.
The facts that, either before, or at the time of, or after the alleged crime, A provided evidence which
would tend to give to the facts of the case an appearance favourable to himself, or that he destroyed or
concealed evidence, or prevented the presence or procured the absence of persons who might have been
witnesses, or suborned persons to give false evidence respecting it, are relevant.
(f) The question is, whether A robbed B.
The facts that, after B was robbed, C said in A’s presence –– “the police are coming to look for the
man who robbed B,” and that immediately afterwards A ran away, are relevant.
(g) The question is, whether A owes B rupees 10,000.
The facts that A asked C to lend him money, and that D said to C in A’s presence and hearing–– “I
advise you not to trust A, for he owes B 10,000 rupees,” and that A went away without making any
answer, are relevant facts.
(h) The question is, whether A committed a crime.
The fact that A absconded, after receiving a letter, warning him that inquiry was being made for the
criminal, and the contents of the letter, are relevant.
(i) A is accused of a crime.
The facts that, after the commission of the alleged crime, he absconded, or was in possession of
property or the proceeds of property acquired by the crime, or attempted to conceal things which were or
might have been used in committing it, are relevant.
(j) The question is, whether A was ravished.
The facts that, shortly after the alleged rape, she made a complaint relating to the crime, the
circumstances under which, and the terms in which, the complaint was made, are relevant.
The fact that, without making a complaint, she said that she had been ravished is not relevant as
conduct under this section, though it may be relevant as a dying declaration under section 32, clause (1),
or as corroborative evidence under section 157.
(k) The question is, whether A was robbed.
The fact that, soon after the alleged robbery, he made a complaint relating to the offence, the
circumstances under which, and the terms in which, the complaint was made, are relevant.