36
pleader,] such notice to produce it as is prescribed by law; and if no notice is prescribed by law, then such
notice as the Court considers reasonable under the circumstances of the case:
Provided that such notice shall not be required in order to render secondary evidence admissible in
any of the following cases, or in any other case in which the Court thinks fit to dispense with it: ––
(1) when the document to be proved is itself a notice;
(2) when, from the nature of the case, the adverse party must know that he will be required to
produce it;
(3) when it appears or is proved that the adverse party has obtained possession of the original by
fraud or force;
(4) when the adverse party or his agent has the original in Court;
(5) when the adverse party or his agent has admitted the loss of the document;
(6) when the person in possession of the document is out of reach of, or not subject to, the process
of the Court.
67. Proof of signature and handwriting of person alleged to have signed or written document
produced. –– If a document is alleged to be signed or to have been written wholly or in part by any
person, the signature or the handwriting of so much of the document as is alleged to be in that person’s
handwriting must be proved to be in his handwriting.
1[67A. Proof as to 2[electronic signature].––Except in the case of a secure 2[electronic signature], if the
2[electronic signature] of any subscriber is alleged to have been affixed to an electronic record the fact that
such 2[electronic signature] is the 2[electronic signature] of the subscriber must be proved.]
68. Proof of execution of document required by law to be attested.––If a document is required by
law to be attested, it shall not be used as evidence until one attesting witness at least has been called for
the purpose of proving its execution, if there be an attesting witness alive, and subject to the process of
the Court and capable of giving evidence:
3[Provided that it shall not be necessary to call an attesting witness in proof of the execution of any
document, not being a will, which has been registered in accordance with the provisions of the Indian
Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), unless its execution by the person by whom it purports to have been
executed is specifically denied.]
69. Proof where no attesting witness found.––If no such attesting witness can be found, or if the
document purports to have been executed in the United Kingdom, it must be proved that the attestation of
one attesting witness at least is in his handwriting, and that the signature of the person executing the
document is in the hand writing of that person.
70. Admission of execution by party to attested document.––The admission of a party to an
attested document of its execution by himself shall be sufficient proof of its execution as against him,
though it be a document required by law to be attested.
71. Proof when attesting witness denies the execution.––If the attesting witness denies or does not
recollect the execution of the document, its execution may be proved by other evidence.
72. Proof of document not required by law to be attested.––An attested document not required by
law to be attested may be proved as if it was unattested.
1. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92 and the Second Schedule (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
2. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, s. 52, for “digital signature” (w.e.f. 27-10-2009).
3. Ins. by Act 31 of 1926, s. 2.