47
The burden of proof is on A.
(c) Section 325 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) provides that whoever, except in the case
provided for by section 335, voluntarily causes grievous hurt, shall be subject to certain punishments.
A is charged with voluntarily causing grievous hurt under section 325.
The burden of proving the circumstances bringing the case under section 335 lies on A.
106. Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge. –– When any fact is especially within
the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.
Illustrations
(a) When a person does an act with some intention other than that which the character and
circumstances of the act suggest, the burden of proving that intention is upon him.
(b) A is charged with travelling on a railway without a ticket. The burden of proving that he had a
ticket is on him.
107. Burden of proving death of person known to have been alive within thirty years. –– When
the question is whether a man is alive or dead, and it is shown that he was alive within thirty years, the
burden of proving that he is dead is on the person who affirms it.
108. Burden of proving that person is alive who has not been heard of for seven
years. –– 1[Provided that when] the question is whether a man is alive or dead, and it is proved that he has
not been heard of for seven years by those who would naturally have heard of him if he had been alive,
the burden of proving that he is alive is 2[shifted to] the person who affirms it.
109. Burden of proof as to relationship in the cases of partners, landlord and tenant, principal
and agent. –– When the question is whether persons are partners, landlord and tenant, or principal and
agent, and it has been shown that they have been acting as such, the burden of proving that they do not
stand, or have ceased to stand, to each other in those relationships respectively, is on the person who
affirms it.
110. Burden of proof as to ownership.––When the question is whether any person is owner of
anything of which he is shown to be in possession, the burden of proving that he is not the owner is on the
person who affirms that he is not the owner.
111. Proof of good faith in transactions where one party is in relation of active confidence. ––
Where there is a question as to the good faith of a transaction between parties, one of whom stands to the
other in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good faith of the transaction is on the
party who is in a position of active confidence.
Illustrations
(a) The good faith of a sale by a client to an attorney is in question in a suit brought by the client.
The burden of proving the good faith of the transaction is on the attorney.
(b) The good faith of a sale by a son just come of age to a father is in question in a suit brought by
the son. The burden of proving the good faith of the transaction is on the father.
3[111A. Presumption as to certain offences. –– (1) Where a person is accused of having committed
any offence specified in sub-section (2), in ––
1. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, s. 9, for “when”.
2. Subs. by s. 9, ibid., for “on”.
3. Ins. by Act 61 of 1984, s. 20 (w.e.f. 14-7-1984).