15
Illustrations
Reasonable ground exists for believing that A has joined in a conspiracy to wage war against the 1[Government
of India].
The facts that B procured arms in Europe for the purpose of the conspiracy, C collected money in Calcutta for a
like object, D persuaded persons to join the conspiracy in Bombay, E published writings advocating the object in
view at Agra, and F transmitted from Delhi to G at Kabul the money which C had collected at Calcutta, and the
contents of a letter written by H giving an account of the conspiracy, are each relevant, both to prove the existence
of the conspiracy, and to prove A’s complicity in it, although he may have been ignorant of all of them, and
although the persons by whom they were done were strangers to him, and although they may have taken place
before he joined the conspiracy or after he left it.
11. When facts not otherwise relevant become relevant.––Facts not otherwise relevant are
relevant––
(1) if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact;
(2) if by themselves or in connection with other facts they make the existence or non-existence of
any fact in issue or relevant fact highly probable or improbable.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A committed a crime at Calcutta on a certain day.
The fact that, on that day, A was at Lahore is relevant.
The fact that, near the time when the crime was committed, A was at a distance from the place where it was
committed, which would render it highly improbable, though not impossible, that he committed it, is relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A committed a crime.
The circumstances are such that the crime must have been committed either by A, B, C or D. Every fact which
shows that the crime could have been committed by no one else, and that it was not committed by either B, C or D,
is relevant.
12. In suits for damages, facts tending to enable Court to determine amount are relevant. –– In
suits in which damages are claimed, any fact which will enable the Court to determine the amount of
damages which ought to be awarded, is relevant.
13. Facts relevant when right or custom is in question.––Where the question is as to the existence
of any right or custom, the following facts are relevant:––
(a) any transaction by which the right or custom in question was created, claimed, modified,
recognised, asserted or denied, or which was inconsistent with its existence;
(b) particular instances in which the right or custom was claimed, recognised or exercised, or in
which its exercise was disputed, asserted or departed from.
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Queen”.