16
Illustrations
The question is, whether A has a right to a fishery.
A deed conferring the fishery on A’s ancestors, a mortgage of the fishery by A’s father, a subsequent grant of
the fishery by A’s father, irreconcilable with the mortgage, particular instances in which A’s father exercised the
right, or in which the exercise of the right was stopped by A’s neighbours, are relevant facts.
14. Facts showing existence of state of mind, or of body of bodily feeling.––Facts showing the
existence of any state of mind such as intention, knowledge, good faith, negligence, rashness, ill-will or
good-will towards any particular person, or showing the existence of any state of body or bodily feeling,
are relevant, when the existence of any such state of mind or body or bodily feeling is in issue or relevant.
1[Explanation 1.––A fact relevant as showing the existence of a relevant state of mind must show that
the state of mind exists, not generally, but in reference to the particular matter in question.
Explanation 2.––But where, upon the trial of a person accused of an offence, the previous
commission by the accused of an offence is relevant within the meaning of this section, the previous
conviction of such person shall also be a relevant fact.2]
Illustrations
(a) A is accused of receiving stolen goods knowing them to be stolen. It is proved that he was in possession of a
particular stolen article.
The fact that, at the same time, he was in possession of many other stolen articles is relevant, as tending to show
that he knew each and all of the articles of which he was in possession to be stolen.
3[(b) A is accused of fraudulently delivering to another person a counterfeit coin which, at the time when he
delivered it, he knew to be counterfeit.
The fact that, at the time of its delivery, A was possessed of a number of other pieces of counterfeit coin is
relevant.
The fact that A had been previously convicted of delivering to another person as genuine a counterfeit coin
knowing it to be counterfeit is relevant.]
(c) A sues B for damage done by a dog of B’s, which B knew to be ferocious.
The fact that the dog had previously bitten X, Y and Z, and that they had made complaints to B, are relevant.
(d) The question is, whether A, the acceptor of a bill of exchange, knew that the name of the payee was
fictitious.
The fact that A had accepted other bills drawn in the same manner before they could have been transmitted to
him by the payee if the payee had been a real person, is relevant, as showing that A knew that the payee was a
fictitious person.
(e) A is accused of defaming B by publishing an imputation intended to harm the reputation of B.
The fact of previous publications by A respecting B, showing ill-will on the part of A towards B is relevant, as
proving A’s intention to harm B’s reputation by the particular publication in question.
1. Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, s. 1(I), for the Original Explanation.
2. See the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), s. 311.
3. Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, s. 1(2), ibid. for the original Illustration (b).