19
ADMISSIONS
17. Admission defined.––An admission is a statement, 1[oral or documentary or contained in
electronic form], which suggests any inference as to any fact in issue or relevant fact, and which is made
by any of the persons, and under the circumstances, hereinafter mentioned.
18. Admission by party to proceeding or his agent.––Statements made by a party to the
proceeding, or by an agent to any such party, whom the Court regards, under the circumstances of the
case, as expressly or impliedly authorised by him to make them, are admissions.
by suitor in representative character.––Statements made by parties to suits suing or sued in a
representative character, are not admissions, unless they were made while the party making them held that
character.
Statements made by
––
(1) by party interested in subject-matter.––persons who have any proprietary or pecuniary interest
in the subject-matter of the proceeding, and who make the statement in their character of persons so
interested, or
(2) by person from whom interest derived.––persons from whom the parties to the suit have
derived their interest in the subject-matter of the suit,
are admissions, if they are made during the continuance of the interest of the persons making the
statements.
19. Admissions by persons whose position must be proved as against party to suit. ––Statements
made by persons whose position or liability, it is necessary to prove as against any party to the suit, are
admissions, if such statements would be relevant as against such persons in relation to such position or
liability in a suit brought by or against them, and if they are made whilst the person making them
occupies such position or is subject to such liability.
Illustration
A undertakes to collect rents for B.
B sues A for not collecting rent due from C to B.
A denies that rent was due from C to B.
A statement by C that he owed B rent is an admission, and is a relevant fact as against A, if A denies that C did
owe rent to B.
20. Admissions by persons expressly referred to by party to suit. ––Statements made by persons
to whom a party to the suit has expressly referred for information in reference to a matter in dispute are
admissions.
Illustration
The question is, whether a horse sold by A to B is sound.
A says to B –– “Go and ask C, C knows all about it.” C’s statement is an admission.
21. Proof of admissions against persons making them, and by or on their behalf.––Admissions
are relevant and may be proved as against the person who makes them, or his representative in interest;
1. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, s. 92 and the Second Schedule, for “oral or documentary,” (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).