51
CHAPTER IX. –– OF WITNESSES
118. Who may testify. –– All persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that
they are prevented from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to those
questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause of the
same kind.
Explanation. –– A lunatic is not incompetent to testify, unless he is prevented by his lunacy from
understanding the questions put to him and giving rational answers to them.
1[119. Witness unable to communicate verbally. –– A witness who is unable to speak may give his
evidence in any other manner in which he can make it intelligible, as by writing or by signs; but such
writing must be written and the signs made in open Court, evidence so given shall be deemed to be oral
evidence:
Provided that if the witness is unable to communicate verbally, the Court shall take the assistance of
an interpreter or a special educator in recording the statement, and such statement shall be video graphed.]
120. Parties to civil suit, and their wives or husbands. Husband or wife of person under
criminal trial. –– In all civil proceedings the parties to the suit, and the husband or wife of any party to
the suit, shall be competent witnesses. In criminal proceedings against any person, the husband or wife of
such person, respectively, shall be a competent witness.
121. Judges and Magistrates. –– No Judge or Magistrate shall, except upon the special order of
some Court to which he is subordinate, be compelled to answer any questions as to his own conduct in
Court as such Judge or Magistrate, or as to anything which came to his knowledge in Court as such Judge
or Magistrate; but he may be examined as to other matters which occurred in his presence whilst he was
so acting.
Illustrations
(a) A, on his trial before the Court of Session, says that a deposition was improperly taken by B, the
Magistrate. B cannot be compelled to answer questions as to this, except upon the special order of a
superior Court.
(b) A is accused before the Court of Session of having given false evidence before B, a Magistrate. B
cannot be asked what A said, except upon the special order of the superior Court.
(c) A is accused before the Court of Session of attempting to murder a police-officer whilst on his
trial before B, a Sessions Judge. B may be examined as to what occurred.
122. Communications during marriage.––No person who is or has been married, shall be
compelled to disclose any communication made to him during marriage by any person to whom he is or
has been married; nor shall he be permitted to disclose any such communication, unless the person who
made it, or his representative in interest, consents, except in suits between married persons, or
proceedings in which one married person is prosecuted for any crime committed against the other.
123. Evidence as to affairs of State.––No one shall be permitted to give any evidence derived from
unpublished official records relating to any affairs of State, except with the permission of the officer at
the head of the department concerned, who shall give or withhold such permission as he thinks fit.
124. Official communications.––No public officer shall be compelled to disclose communications
made to him in official confidence, when he considers that the public interests would suffer by the
disclosure.
1. Subs. by Act 13 of 2013, s. 27 for s. 119 (w.e.f. 3-2-2013).