57
152. Questions intended to insult or annoy.–– The Court shall forbid any question which appears to
it to be intended to insult or annoy, or which, though proper in itself, appears to the Court needlessly
offensive in form.
153. Exclusion of evidence to contradict answers to questions testing veracity. ––When a witness
has been asked and has answered any question which is relevant to the inquiry only in so far as it tends to
shake his credit by injuring his character, no evidence shall be given to contradict him; but, if he answers
falsely, he may after wards be charged with giving false evidence.
Exception 1.–– If a witness is asked whether he has been previously convicted of any crime and
denies it, evidence may be given of his previous conviction.
Exception 2.–– If a witness is asked any question tending to impeach his impartiality, and answers it
by denying the facts suggested, he may be contradicted.
Illustrations
(a) A claim against an underwriter is resisted on the ground of fraud.
The claimant is asked whether, in a former transaction, he had not made a fraudulent claim. He denies
it.
Evidence is offered to show that he did make such a claim.
The evidence is inadmissible.
(b) A witness is asked whether he was not dismissed from a situation for dishonesty.
He denies it.
Evidence is offered to show that he was dismissed for dishonesty.
The evidence is not admissible.
(c) A affirms that on a certain day he saw B at Lahore.
A is asked whether he himself was not on that day at Calcutta. He denies it.
Evidence is offered to show that A was on that day at Calcutta.
The evidence is admissible, not as contradicting A on a fact which affects his credit, but as
contradicting the alleged fact that B was seen on the day in question in Lahore.
In each of these cases the witness might, if his denial was false, be charged with giving false
evidence.
(d) A is asked whether his family has not had a bloodfeud with the family of B against whom he gives
evidence.
He denies it. He may be contradicted on the ground that the question tends to impeach his
impartiality.
154. Question by party to his own witness. ––1[(1)] The Court may, in its discretion, permit the
person who calls a witness to put any questions to him which might be put in cross-examination by the
adverse party.
2[(2) Nothing in this section shall disentitle the person so permitted under sub-section (1), to rely on
any part of the evidence of such witness.]
155. Impeaching credit of witness.––The credit of a witness may be impeached in the following
ways by the adverse party, or, with the consent of the Court, by the party who calls him:––
1. Section 154 numbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, s. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
2. Ins. by s. 9, ibid. (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).