54
If the relevancy of one alleged fact depends upon another alleged fact being first proved, the Judge
may, in his discretion, either permit evidence of the first fact to be given before the second fact is proved,
or require evidence to be given of the second fact before evidence is given of the first fact.
Illustrations
(a) It is proposed to prove a statement about a relevant fact by a person alleged to be dead, which
statement is relevant under section 32.
The fact that the person is dead must be proved by the person proposing to prove the statement,
before evidence is given of the statement.
(b) It is proposed to prove, by a copy, the contents of a document said to be lost.
The fact that the original is lost must be proved by the person proposing to produce the copy, before
the copy is produced.
(c) A is accused of receiving stolen property knowing it to have been stolen.
It is proposed to prove that he denied the possession of the property.
The relevancy of the denial depends on the identity of the property. The Court may, in its discretion,
either require the property to be identified before the denial of the possession is proved, or permit the
denial of the possession to be proved before the property is identified.
(d) It is proposed to prove a fact (A) which is said to have been the cause or effect of fact in issue.
There are several intermediate facts (B, C and D) which must be shown to exist before the fact (A) can be
regarded as the cause or effect of the fact in issue. The Court may either permit A to be proved before B,
C or D is proved, or may require proof of B, C and D before permitting proof of A.
137. Examination-in-chief. –– The examination of witness by the party who calls him shall be called
his examination-in-chief.
Cross-examination. –– The examination of a witness by the adverse party shall be called his
cross-examination.
Re-examination. ––The examination of a witness, subsequent to the cross-examination by the party
who called him, shall be called his re-examination.
138. Order of examinations. –– Witnesses shall be first examined-in-chief, then (if the adverse party
so desires) cross-examined, then (if the party calling him so desires) re-examined.
The examination and cross-examination must relate to relevant facts, but the cross-examination need
not be confined to the facts to which the witness testified on his examination-in-chief.
Direction of re-examination. –– The re-examination shall be directed to the explanation of matters
referred to in cross-examination; and, if new matter is, by permission of the Court, introduced in
re-examination, the adverse party may further cross-examine upon that matter.
139. Cross-examination of person called to produce a document. –– A person summoned to
produce a document does not become a witness by the mere fact that he produces it, and cannot be
cross-examined unless and until he is called as a witness.
140. Witnesses to character. –– Witnesses to character may be cross-examined and re-examined.
141. Leading questions. –– Any question suggesting the answer which the person putting it wishes
or expects to receive, is called a leading question.